examples/agents/rewoo/README.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

<!--
  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2024-2025 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
  SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
-->

# ReWOO Agent

A configurable ReWOO Agent. This agent leverages the AgentIQ plugin system and `WorkflowBuilder` to integrate pre-built and custom tools into the workflow. Key elements are summarized below:

## Key Features

- **Pre-built Tools:** Leverages core AgentIQ library agent and tools.
- **ReWOO Agent:** The ReWOO pattern eliminates the need to include the system prompt and all previous steps for every reasoning iteration, thereby reducing token usage and boosting performance.
- **Custom Plugin System:** Developers can bring in new tools using plugins.
- **High-level API:** Enables defining functions that transform into asynchronous LangChain tools.
- **Agentic Workflows:** Fully configurable via YAML for flexibility and productivity.
- **Ease of Use:** Simplifies developer experience and deployment.

## Installation and Setup

If you have not already done so, follow the instructions in the [Install Guide](../../../docs/source/intro/install.md) to create the development environment and install AgentIQ.

### Install this Workflow:

From the root directory of the AgentIQ library, run the following commands:

```bash
uv pip install -e .
```

### Set Up API Keys
If you have not already done so, follow the [Obtaining API Keys](../../../docs/source/intro/get-started.md#obtaining-api-keys) instructions to obtain an NVIDIA API key. You need to set your NVIDIA API key as an environment variable to access NVIDIA AI services:

```bash
export NVIDIA_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
```

Prior to using the `tavily_internet_search` tool, create an account at [`tavily.com``](https://tavily.com/) and obtain an API key. Once obtained, set the `TAVILY_API_KEY` environment variable to the API key:
```bash
export TAVILY_API_KEY=<YOUR_TAVILY_API_KEY>
```
---

Run the following command from the root of the AgentIQ repo to execute this workflow with the specified input:

```bash
aiq run  --config_file=examples/agents/rewoo/configs/config.yml --input "Which city held the Olympic game in the year represented by the bigger number of 1996 and 2004?"
```

**Expected Output**

```console
$ aiq run  --config_file=examples/agents/rewoo/configs/config.yml --input "Which city held the Olympic game in the year represented by the bigger number of 1996 and 2004?"
2025-04-23 15:02:08,778 - aiq.runtime.loader - WARNING - Loading module 'aiq_automated_description_generation.register' from entry point 'aiq_automated_description_generation' took a long time (498.780251 ms). Ensure all imports are inside your registered functions.
2025-04-23 15:02:09,024 - aiq.cli.commands.start - INFO - Starting AgentIQ from config file: 'examples/agents/rewoo/configs/config.yml'
2025-04-23 15:02:09,032 - aiq.cli.commands.start - WARNING - The front end type in the config file (fastapi) does not match the command name (console). Overwriting the config file front end.
2025-04-23 15:02:09,088 - haystack.tracing.tracer - INFO - Auto-enabled tracing for 'OpenTelemetryTracer'

Configuration Summary:
--------------------
Workflow Type: rewoo_agent
Number of Functions: 6
Number of LLMs: 1
Number of Embedders: 0
Number of Memory: 0
Number of Retrievers: 0

2025-04-23 15:02:11,038 - aiq.agent.rewoo_agent.agent - INFO - ReWOO agent planner output:
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Agent input: Which city held the Olympic game in the year represented by the bigger number of 1996 and 2004?
Agent's thoughts:
[
  {
    "plan": "Compare the numbers 1996 and 2004 to determine the bigger number.",
    "evidence": {
      "placeholder": "#E1",
      "tool": "calculator_inequality",
      "tool_input": {"text": "2004 > 1996"}
    }
  },
  {
    "plan": "Since 2004 is indeed bigger, search for the city that held the Olympic Games in 2004.",
    "evidence": {
      "placeholder": "#E2",
      "tool": "internet_search",
      "tool_input": {"question": "Which city held the Olympic Games in 2004?"}
    }
  }
]
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:02:11,047 - aiq.agent.rewoo_agent.agent - INFO - ReWOO agent executor output:
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Calling tools: calculator_inequality
Tool's input: {'text': '2004 > 1996'}
Tool's response:
First number 2004 is greater than the second number 1996
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:02:13,096 - aiq.agent.rewoo_agent.agent - INFO - ReWOO agent executor output:
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Calling tools: internet_search
Tool's input: {'question': 'Which city held the Olympic Games in 2004?'}
Tool's response:
<Document href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2004_Summer_Olympics"/>
The 2004 Summer Olympics (Greek: Θερινοί Ολυμπιακοί Αγώνες 2004, romanized: Theriní Olympiakí Agónes 2004),[b] officially the Games of the XXVIII Olympiad (Αγώνες της 28ης Ολυμπιάδας, Agónes tis 28is Olympiádas), and officially branded as Athens 2004 (Αθήνα 2004), were an international multi-sport event held from 13 to 29 August 2004 in Athens, Greece. [...] Emblem of the 2004 Summer Olympics[a]
Location    Athens, Greece
Motto   Welcome Home
(Greek: Καλώς ήρθατε σπίτι, romanized: Kalós írthate spíti)
Nations 201
Athletes    10,557 (6,257 men, 4,300 women)
Events  301 in 28 sports (40 disciplines)
Opening 13 August 2004
Closing 29 August 2004
Opened by   President Konstantinos Stephanopoulos[1]
Closed by   IOC President Jacques Rogge
Cauldron    Nikolaos Kaklamanakis[1]
Stadium Olympic Stadium
Summer
← Sydney 2000
Beijing 2008 →
Winter [...] See also[edit]
    Olympic Games portal
2004 Summer Paralympics
Olympic Game...
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:02:13,382 - aiq.agent.rewoo_agent.agent - INFO - ReWOO agent solver output:
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Agent input: Which city held the Olympic game in the year represented by the bigger number of 1996 and 2004?
Agent's thoughts:
Athens
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:02:13,385 - aiq.front_ends.console.console_front_end_plugin - INFO -
--------------------------------------------------
Workflow Result:
['Athens']
--------------------------------------------------
```
---

### Starting the AgentIQ Server

You can start the AgentIQ server using the `aiq serve` command with the appropriate configuration file.

**Starting the ReWOO Agent Example Workflow**

```bash
aiq serve --config_file=examples/agents/rewoo/configs/config.yml
```

### Making Requests to the AgentIQ Server

Once the server is running, you can make HTTP requests to interact with the workflow.

#### Non-Streaming Requests

**Non-Streaming Request to the ReWOO Agent Example Workflow**

```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url http://localhost:8000/generate \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{"input_message": "Which city held the Olympic game in the year represented by the bigger number of 1996 and 2004?"}'
```

#### Streaming Requests

**Streaming Request to the ReWOO Agent Example Workflow**

```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url http://localhost:8000/generate/stream \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{"input_message": "Which city held the Olympic game in the year represented by the bigger number of 1996 and 2004?"}'
```
---

### Evaluating the ReWOO Agent Workflow
**Run and evaluate the `rewoo_agent` example Workflow**

```bash
aiq eval --config_file=examples/agents/rewoo/configs/config.yml
```

Commit message:

Rename AgentIQ to Agent Intelligence Toolkit (#160)
Name Usage:
* Full Name: Agent Intelligence Toolkit
  - Use for document titles, webpage headers, any public descriptions
* Short Name: AIQ Toolkit
  - Use after Agent Intelligence Toolkit has been referenced in blogs, docs, and other public locations
* Uppercase No Space: AIQToolkit
  - Use for situations where capitalization will be preserved like the Github URL, directories, etc.
* Lowercase No Space: aiqtoolkit
  - Use for URLs, pypi package, any place where spaces are not allowed and casing is not preserved.

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/AgentIQ/blob/develop/docs/source/advanced/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - David Gardner (https://github.com/dagardner-nv)

Approvers:
  - Anuradha Karuppiah (https://github.com/AnuradhaKaruppiah)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/pull/160

examples/agents/rewoo/README.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

<!--
  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2024-2025 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
  SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
-->

# ReWOO Agent

A configurable ReWOO Agent. This agent leverages the AIQ Toolkit plugin system and `WorkflowBuilder` to integrate pre-built and custom tools into the workflow. Key elements are summarized below:

## Key Features

- **Pre-built Tools:** Leverages core AIQ Toolkit library agent and tools.
- **ReWOO Agent:** The ReWOO pattern eliminates the need to include the system prompt and all previous steps for every reasoning iteration, thereby reducing token usage and boosting performance.
- **Custom Plugin System:** Developers can bring in new tools using plugins.
- **High-level API:** Enables defining functions that transform into asynchronous LangChain tools.
- **Agentic Workflows:** Fully configurable via YAML for flexibility and productivity.
- **Ease of Use:** Simplifies developer experience and deployment.

## Installation and Setup

If you have not already done so, follow the instructions in the [Install Guide](../../../docs/source/intro/install.md) to create the development environment and install AIQ Toolkit.

### Install this Workflow:

From the root directory of the AIQ Toolkit library, run the following commands:

```bash
uv pip install -e .
```

### Set Up API Keys
If you have not already done so, follow the [Obtaining API Keys](../../../docs/source/intro/get-started.md#obtaining-api-keys) instructions to obtain an NVIDIA API key. You need to set your NVIDIA API key as an environment variable to access NVIDIA AI services:

```bash
export NVIDIA_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
```

Prior to using the `tavily_internet_search` tool, create an account at [`tavily.com``](https://tavily.com/) and obtain an API key. Once obtained, set the `TAVILY_API_KEY` environment variable to the API key:
```bash
export TAVILY_API_KEY=<YOUR_TAVILY_API_KEY>
```
---

Run the following command from the root of the AIQ Toolkit repo to execute this workflow with the specified input:

```bash
aiq run  --config_file=examples/agents/rewoo/configs/config.yml --input "Which city held the Olympic game in the year represented by the bigger number of 1996 and 2004?"
```

**Expected Output**

```console
$ aiq run  --config_file=examples/agents/rewoo/configs/config.yml --input "Which city held the Olympic game in the year represented by the bigger number of 1996 and 2004?"
2025-04-23 15:02:08,778 - aiq.runtime.loader - WARNING - Loading module 'aiq_automated_description_generation.register' from entry point 'aiq_automated_description_generation' took a long time (498.780251 ms). Ensure all imports are inside your registered functions.
2025-04-23 15:02:09,024 - aiq.cli.commands.start - INFO - Starting AIQ Toolkit from config file: 'examples/agents/rewoo/configs/config.yml'
2025-04-23 15:02:09,032 - aiq.cli.commands.start - WARNING - The front end type in the config file (fastapi) does not match the command name (console). Overwriting the config file front end.
2025-04-23 15:02:09,088 - haystack.tracing.tracer - INFO - Auto-enabled tracing for 'OpenTelemetryTracer'

Configuration Summary:
--------------------
Workflow Type: rewoo_agent
Number of Functions: 6
Number of LLMs: 1
Number of Embedders: 0
Number of Memory: 0
Number of Retrievers: 0

2025-04-23 15:02:11,038 - aiq.agent.rewoo_agent.agent - INFO - ReWOO agent planner output:
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Agent input: Which city held the Olympic game in the year represented by the bigger number of 1996 and 2004?
Agent's thoughts:
[
  {
    "plan": "Compare the numbers 1996 and 2004 to determine the bigger number.",
    "evidence": {
      "placeholder": "#E1",
      "tool": "calculator_inequality",
      "tool_input": {"text": "2004 > 1996"}
    }
  },
  {
    "plan": "Since 2004 is indeed bigger, search for the city that held the Olympic Games in 2004.",
    "evidence": {
      "placeholder": "#E2",
      "tool": "internet_search",
      "tool_input": {"question": "Which city held the Olympic Games in 2004?"}
    }
  }
]
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:02:11,047 - aiq.agent.rewoo_agent.agent - INFO - ReWOO agent executor output:
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Calling tools: calculator_inequality
Tool's input: {'text': '2004 > 1996'}
Tool's response:
First number 2004 is greater than the second number 1996
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:02:13,096 - aiq.agent.rewoo_agent.agent - INFO - ReWOO agent executor output:
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Calling tools: internet_search
Tool's input: {'question': 'Which city held the Olympic Games in 2004?'}
Tool's response:
<Document href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2004_Summer_Olympics"/>
The 2004 Summer Olympics (Greek: Θερινοί Ολυμπιακοί Αγώνες 2004, romanized: Theriní Olympiakí Agónes 2004),[b] officially the Games of the XXVIII Olympiad (Αγώνες της 28ης Ολυμπιάδας, Agónes tis 28is Olympiádas), and officially branded as Athens 2004 (Αθήνα 2004), were an international multi-sport event held from 13 to 29 August 2004 in Athens, Greece. [...] Emblem of the 2004 Summer Olympics[a]
Location    Athens, Greece
Motto   Welcome Home
(Greek: Καλώς ήρθατε σπίτι, romanized: Kalós írthate spíti)
Nations 201
Athletes    10,557 (6,257 men, 4,300 women)
Events  301 in 28 sports (40 disciplines)
Opening 13 August 2004
Closing 29 August 2004
Opened by   President Konstantinos Stephanopoulos[1]
Closed by   IOC President Jacques Rogge
Cauldron    Nikolaos Kaklamanakis[1]
Stadium Olympic Stadium
Summer
← Sydney 2000
Beijing 2008 →
Winter [...] See also[edit]
    Olympic Games portal
2004 Summer Paralympics
Olympic Game...
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:02:13,382 - aiq.agent.rewoo_agent.agent - INFO - ReWOO agent solver output:
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Agent input: Which city held the Olympic game in the year represented by the bigger number of 1996 and 2004?
Agent's thoughts:
Athens
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:02:13,385 - aiq.front_ends.console.console_front_end_plugin - INFO -
--------------------------------------------------
Workflow Result:
['Athens']
--------------------------------------------------
```
---

### Starting the AIQ Toolkit Server

You can start the AIQ Toolkit server using the `aiq serve` command with the appropriate configuration file.

**Starting the ReWOO Agent Example Workflow**

```bash
aiq serve --config_file=examples/agents/rewoo/configs/config.yml
```

### Making Requests to the AIQ Toolkit Server

Once the server is running, you can make HTTP requests to interact with the workflow.

#### Non-Streaming Requests

**Non-Streaming Request to the ReWOO Agent Example Workflow**

```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url http://localhost:8000/generate \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{"input_message": "Which city held the Olympic game in the year represented by the bigger number of 1996 and 2004?"}'
```

#### Streaming Requests

**Streaming Request to the ReWOO Agent Example Workflow**

```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url http://localhost:8000/generate/stream \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{"input_message": "Which city held the Olympic game in the year represented by the bigger number of 1996 and 2004?"}'
```
---

### Evaluating the ReWOO Agent Workflow
**Run and evaluate the `rewoo_agent` example Workflow**

```bash
aiq eval --config_file=examples/agents/rewoo/configs/config.yml
```
