examples/multi_frameworks/README.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Multi-Frameworks Example

This example demonstrates how to integrate multiple AI frameworks seamlessly using a set of LangChain / LangGraph agents, in AgentIQ.
AgentIQ is framework-agnostic, allowing usage of custom and pre-built preferred AI tools without restriction due to AI framework.

## Overview

LangChain is incredibly flexible, LlamaIndex is incredibly powerful for building RAG pipelines;
different AI frameworks excel at different tasks.
Instead of committing to just one, this example shows how they can work together via AgentIQ.

In this example, we combine:
- **Haystack Agent** – with a configurable LLM.
- **LangChain Research Tool** – web search.
- **LlamaIndex RAG Tool** – document Q&A (pre-configured to use this README)

This example workflow leverages the AgentIQ plugin system and `Builder` object to demonstrate how the `Builder` object can dynamically wrap any Python function—regardless of its underlying AI framework or implementation—and convert it into another AI framework of our choice.

In this example, we wrap all three of the above tools as LangChain Tools.
Then, using LangChain and LangGraph, we unify these frameworks into a single workflow, demonstrating interoperability and flexibility. The goal is not to favor one tool over another but to showcase how different AI stacks can complement each other.


## Why This Matters

- **Leverage Strengths** – Different AI frameworks specialize in different areas.
- **Interoperability** – Combine tools seamlessly without vendor lock-in.
- **Scalability** – Build flexible AI pipelines that adapt to different use cases.


## Key Features

- **Custom-plug-in Tools:** with a basic llama-index RAG ingesting README from within this workflow
- **Custom Plugin System:** Developers can bring in new tools using plugins.
- **High-level API:** Enables defining functions that transform into asynchronous LangChain tools.
- **Agentic Workflows:** Fully configurable via YAML for flexibility and productivity.
- **Ease of Use:** Simplifies developer experience and deployment.

There is a supervisor agent that will assign/route incoming user query to one of the worker agents.
the 3 worker agents are :

- (1) a `rag_agent` made out of `llama_index` via a custom `llama-index-rag` tool
- (2) a `research_agent` made out of a LangChain runnable chain with tool calling capability, able to call arXiv as a tool and return summarized found research papers
- (3) a chitchat agent that is able to handle general chitchat query from user, constructed via haystack's pipeline

the multi-agents architecture looks like the below

![LangGraph multi-agents workflow](../../docs/source/_static/aiq_multi_frameworks_agentic_schema.png)

## Local Installation and Usage

If you have not already done so, follow the instructions in the [Install Guide](../../docs/source/intro/install.md) to create the development environment and install AgentIQ.

### Step 1: Set Your NVIDIA API Key Environment Variable
If you have not already done so, follow the [Obtaining API Keys](../../docs/source/intro/get-started.md#obtaining-api-keys) instructions to obtain an NVIDIA API key. You need to set your NVIDIA API key as an environment variable to access NVIDIA AI services.

```bash
export NVIDIA_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
```

### Step 2: Running the `multi_frameworks` Workflow

**Install the `multi_frameworks` Workflow**

```bash
uv pip install -e examples/multi_frameworks
```

**Run the `multi_frameworks` Workflow**

note: the below is an example command to use and query this and trigger `rag_agent`

```bash
aiq run --config_file=examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml --input "tell me about this workflow"
```
**expected output:**

```
(.venv) (base) coder ➜ ~/dev/ai-query-engine $ aiq run --config_file=examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml --input "tell me about this workflow"
/home/coder/dev/ai-query-engine/.venv/lib/python3.12/site-packages/pydantic/_internal/_config.py:341: UserWarning: Valid config keys have changed in V2:
* 'allow_population_by_field_name' has been renamed to 'populate_by_name'
  warnings.warn(message, UserWarning)
2025-01-16 18:53:33,577 - aiq.cli.run - INFO - Loading configuration from: examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml
None of PyTorch, TensorFlow >= 2.0, or Flax have been found. Models won't be available and only tokenizers, configuration and file/data utilities can be used.
##### processing data from ingesting files in this folder : /home/coder/dev/ai-query-engine/examples/multi_frameworks/data/README.md
2025-01-16 18:53:37,559 - httpx - INFO - HTTP Request: POST https://integrate.api.nvidia.com/v1/embeddings "HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
/opt/conda/lib/python3.12/contextlib.py:210: LangChainDeprecationWarning: As of langchain-core 0.3.0, LangChain uses pydantic v2 internally. The langchain_core.pydantic_v1 module was a compatibility shim for pydantic v1, and should no longer be used. Please update the code to import from Pydantic directly.

For example, replace imports like: `from langchain_core.pydantic_v1 import BaseModel`
with: `from pydantic import BaseModel`
or the v1 compatibility namespace if you are working in a code base that has not been fully upgraded to pydantic 2 yet.         from pydantic.v1 import BaseModel

  return await anext(self.gen)
workflow config =  llm_name='meta/llama-3.1-405b-instruct' llm='nim_llm' embedding_name='nvidia/nv-embed-v1' tool_names=['llama_index_rag'] data_dir='/home/coder/dev/ai-query-engine/examples/multi_frameworks/data/README.md'
 <llama_index.core.tools.function_tool.FunctionTool object at 0x7f5d8552b290> <class 'llama_index.core.tools.function_tool.FunctionTool'>

Configuration Summary:
--------------------
Workflow Type: multi_frameworks
Number of Functions: 1
Number of LLMs: 1
Number of Embedders: 0
Number of Memory: 0

2025-01-16 18:53:39,550 - aiq.cli.run - INFO - Processing input: ('tell me about this workflow',)
========== inside **supervisor node**  current status =
 {'input': 'tell me about this workflow', 'chat_history': []}
========== inside **router node**  current status =
 ['input', 'chosen_worker_agent', 'chat_history']
 ############# router to --> workers
========== inside **workers node**  current status =
 {'input': 'tell me about this workflow', 'chat_history': InMemoryChatMessageHistory(messages=[HumanMessage(content='tell me about this workflow', additional_kwargs={}, response_metadata={}), AIMessage(content='Retrieve', additional_kwargs={}, response_metadata={})]), 'chosen_worker_agent': 'Retrieve'}
 <class 'llama_index.core.query_engine.retriever_query_engine.RetrieverQueryEngine'> <llama_index.core.query_engine.retriever_query_engine.RetrieverQueryEngine object at 0x7f5d855282c0> tell me about this workflow
2025-01-16 18:53:41,528 - httpx - INFO - HTTP Request: POST https://integrate.api.nvidia.com/v1/embeddings "HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
2025-01-16 18:53:45,816 - httpx - INFO - HTTP Request: POST https://integrate.api.nvidia.com/v1/chat/completions "HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
 **using rag_tool via llama_index_rag_tool >>> output:
 This workflow is a multi-frameworks example that can be installed locally and run using specific commands. To install the workflow, you need to run `uv pip install -e examples/multi_frameworks`. After installation, you can run the workflow using the command `aiq run --config_file=examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml --input "your query here"`. You can replace "your query here" with any input you want to query the workflow with.
 <class 'str'> This workflow is a multi-frameworks example that can be installed locally and run using specific commands. To install the workflow, you need to run `uv pip install -e examples/multi_frameworks`. After installation, you can run the workflow using the command `aiq run --config_file=examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml --input "your query here"`. You can replace "your query here" with any input you want to query the workflow with.
2025-01-16 18:53:45,821 - aiq.cli.run - INFO - --------------------------------------------------
Workflow Result:
['This workflow is a multi-frameworks example that can be installed locally and run using specific commands. To install the workflow, you need to run `uv pip install -e examples/multi_frameworks`. After installation, you can run the workflow using the command `aiq run --config_file=examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml --input "your query here"`. You can replace "your query here" with any input you want to query the workflow with.']
--------------------------------------------------
Cleaning up multi_frameworks workflow.
2025-01-16 18:53:45,822 - aiq.cli.entrypoint - INFO - Total time: 12.25 sec
2025-01-16 18:53:45,823 - aiq.cli.entrypoin
```
note: the below is an example command to use and query this and trigger `research_agent`

```bash
aiq run --config_file=examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml --input "what is Compound AI?"
```
**expected output:**
```
(.venv) (base) coder ➜ ~/dev/ai-query-engine $ aiq run --config_file=examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml --input "what is Compound AI?"
/home/coder/dev/ai-query-engine/.venv/lib/python3.12/site-packages/pydantic/_internal/_config.py:341: UserWarning: Valid config keys have changed in V2:
* 'allow_population_by_field_name' has been renamed to 'populate_by_name'
  warnings.warn(message, UserWarning)
2025-01-17 11:05:52,074 - aiq.cli.run - INFO - Loading configuration from: examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml
None of PyTorch, TensorFlow >= 2.0, or Flax have been found. Models won't be available and only tokenizers, configuration and file/data utilities can be used.
##### processing data from ingesting files in this folder : /home/coder/dev/ai-query-engine/examples/multi_frameworks/data/README.md
2025-01-17 11:05:55,787 - httpx - INFO - HTTP Request: POST https://integrate.api.nvidia.com/v1/embeddings "HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
/opt/conda/lib/python3.12/contextlib.py:210: LangChainDeprecationWarning: As of langchain-core 0.3.0, LangChain uses pydantic v2 internally. The langchain_core.pydantic_v1 module was a compatibility shim for pydantic v1, and should no longer be used. Please update the code to import from Pydantic directly.

For example, replace imports like: `from langchain_core.pydantic_v1 import BaseModel`
with: `from pydantic import BaseModel`
or the v1 compatibility namespace if you are working in a code base that has not been fully upgraded to pydantic 2 yet.         from pydantic.v1 import BaseModel

  return await anext(self.gen)
workflow config =  llm_name='meta/llama-3.1-405b-instruct' llm='nim_llm' embedding_name='nvidia/nv-embed-v1' tool_names=['llama_index_rag'] data_dir='/home/coder/dev/ai-query-engine/examples/multi_frameworks/data/README.md'
 <llama_index.core.tools.function_tool.FunctionTool object at 0x7f3cfa3c8d10> <class 'llama_index.core.tools.function_tool.FunctionTool'>

Configuration Summary:
--------------------
Workflow Type: multi_frameworks
Number of Tools: 1
Number of LLMs: 1
Number of Embedders: 0
Number of Memory: 0

2025-01-17 11:05:57,360 - aiq.cli.run - INFO - Processing input: ('what is Compound AI?',)
========== inside **supervisor node**  current status =
 {'input': 'what is Compound AI?', 'chat_history': []}
========== inside **router node**  current status =
 ['input', 'chosen_worker_agent', 'chat_history']
 ############# router to --> workers
========== inside **workers node**  current status =
 {'input': 'what is Compound AI?', 'chat_history': InMemoryChatMessageHistory(messages=[HumanMessage(content='what is Compound AI?', additional_kwargs={}, response_metadata={}), AIMessage(content='Research', additional_kwargs={}, response_metadata={})]), 'chosen_worker_agent': 'Research'}
2025-01-17 11:06:00,021 - arxiv - INFO - Requesting page (first: True, try: 0): https://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=Compound+AI&id_list=&sortBy=relevance&sortOrder=descending&start=0&max_results=1
2025-01-17 11:06:01,437 - arxiv - INFO - Got first page: 1 of 51342 total results
2025-01-17 11:06:01,437 - arxiv - INFO - Sleeping: 2.992289 seconds
2025-01-17 11:06:04,430 - arxiv - INFO - Requesting page (first: False, try: 0): https://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=Compound+AI&id_list=&sortBy=relevance&sortOrder=descending&start=1&max_results=1
2025-01-17 11:06:04,885 - arxiv - INFO - Sleeping: 2.997868 seconds
2025-01-17 11:06:07,883 - arxiv - INFO - Requesting page (first: False, try: 0): https://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=Compound+AI&id_list=&sortBy=relevance&sortOrder=descending&start=2&max_results=1
 <class 'str'> In a compound AI system, components such as an LLM call, a retriever, a code
interpreter, or tools are interconnected. The system's behavior is primarily
driven by parameters such as instructions or tool definitions. Recent
advancements enable end-to-end optimization of these parameters using an LLM.
Notably, leveraging an LLM as an optimizer is particularly efficient because it
avoids gradient computation and can generate complex code and instructions.
This paper presents a survey of the principles and emerging trends in LLM-based
optimization of compound AI systems. It covers archetypes of compound AI
systems, approaches to LLM-based end-to-end optimization, and insights into
future directions and broader impacts. Importantly, this survey uses concepts
from program analysis to provide a unified view of how an LLM optimizer is
prompted to optimize a compound AI system. The exhaustive list of paper is
provided at
https://github.com/linyuhongg/LLM-based-Optimization-of-Compound-AI-Systems.
2025-01-17 11:06:08,363 - aiq.cli.run - INFO - --------------------------------------------------
Workflow Result:
["In a compound AI system, components such as an LLM call, a retriever, a code\ninterpreter, or tools are interconnected. The system's behavior is primarily\ndriven by parameters such as instructions or tool definitions. Recent\nadvancements enable end-to-end optimization of these parameters using an LLM.\nNotably, leveraging an LLM as an optimizer is particularly efficient because it\navoids gradient computation and can generate complex code and instructions.\nThis paper presents a survey of the principles and emerging trends in LLM-based\noptimization of compound AI systems. It covers archetypes of compound AI\nsystems, approaches to LLM-based end-to-end optimization, and insights into\nfuture directions and broader impacts. Importantly, this survey uses concepts\nfrom program analysis to provide a unified view of how an LLM optimizer is\nprompted to optimize a compound AI system. The exhaustive list of paper is\nprovided at\nhttps://github.com/linyuhongg/LLM-based-Optimization-of-Compound-AI-Systems."]
--------------------------------------------------
Cleaning up multi_frameworks workflow.
2025-01-17 11:06:08,364 - aiq.cli.entrypoint - INFO - Total time: 16.29 sec
2025-01-17 11:06:08,364 - aiq.cli.entrypoint - INFO - Pipeline runtime: 11.00 sec
```

Commit message:

Rename AgentIQ to Agent Intelligence Toolkit (#160)
Name Usage:
* Full Name: Agent Intelligence Toolkit
  - Use for document titles, webpage headers, any public descriptions
* Short Name: AIQ Toolkit
  - Use after Agent Intelligence Toolkit has been referenced in blogs, docs, and other public locations
* Uppercase No Space: AIQToolkit
  - Use for situations where capitalization will be preserved like the Github URL, directories, etc.
* Lowercase No Space: aiqtoolkit
  - Use for URLs, pypi package, any place where spaces are not allowed and casing is not preserved.

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/AgentIQ/blob/develop/docs/source/advanced/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - David Gardner (https://github.com/dagardner-nv)

Approvers:
  - Anuradha Karuppiah (https://github.com/AnuradhaKaruppiah)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/pull/160

examples/multi_frameworks/README.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Multi-Frameworks Example

This example demonstrates how to integrate multiple AI frameworks seamlessly using a set of LangChain / LangGraph agents, in AIQ Toolkit.
AIQ Toolkit is framework-agnostic, allowing usage of custom and pre-built preferred AI tools without restriction due to AI framework.

## Overview

LangChain is incredibly flexible, LlamaIndex is incredibly powerful for building RAG pipelines;
different AI frameworks excel at different tasks.
Instead of committing to just one, this example shows how they can work together via AIQ Toolkit.

In this example, we combine:
- **Haystack Agent** – with a configurable LLM.
- **LangChain Research Tool** – web search.
- **LlamaIndex RAG Tool** – document Q&A (pre-configured to use this README)

This example workflow leverages the AIQ Toolkit plugin system and `Builder` object to demonstrate how the `Builder` object can dynamically wrap any Python function—regardless of its underlying AI framework or implementation—and convert it into another AI framework of our choice.

In this example, we wrap all three of the above tools as LangChain Tools.
Then, using LangChain and LangGraph, we unify these frameworks into a single workflow, demonstrating interoperability and flexibility. The goal is not to favor one tool over another but to showcase how different AI stacks can complement each other.


## Why This Matters

- **Leverage Strengths** – Different AI frameworks specialize in different areas.
- **Interoperability** – Combine tools seamlessly without vendor lock-in.
- **Scalability** – Build flexible AI pipelines that adapt to different use cases.


## Key Features

- **Custom-plug-in Tools:** with a basic llama-index RAG ingesting README from within this workflow
- **Custom Plugin System:** Developers can bring in new tools using plugins.
- **High-level API:** Enables defining functions that transform into asynchronous LangChain tools.
- **Agentic Workflows:** Fully configurable via YAML for flexibility and productivity.
- **Ease of Use:** Simplifies developer experience and deployment.

There is a supervisor agent that will assign/route incoming user query to one of the worker agents.
the 3 worker agents are :

- (1) a `rag_agent` made out of `llama_index` via a custom `llama-index-rag` tool
- (2) a `research_agent` made out of a LangChain runnable chain with tool calling capability, able to call arXiv as a tool and return summarized found research papers
- (3) a chitchat agent that is able to handle general chitchat query from user, constructed via haystack's pipeline

the multi-agents architecture looks like the below

![LangGraph multi-agents workflow](../../docs/source/_static/aiq_multi_frameworks_agentic_schema.png)

## Local Installation and Usage

If you have not already done so, follow the instructions in the [Install Guide](../../docs/source/intro/install.md) to create the development environment and install AIQ Toolkit.

### Step 1: Set Your NVIDIA API Key Environment Variable
If you have not already done so, follow the [Obtaining API Keys](../../docs/source/intro/get-started.md#obtaining-api-keys) instructions to obtain an NVIDIA API key. You need to set your NVIDIA API key as an environment variable to access NVIDIA AI services.

```bash
export NVIDIA_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
```

### Step 2: Running the `multi_frameworks` Workflow

**Install the `multi_frameworks` Workflow**

```bash
uv pip install -e examples/multi_frameworks
```

**Run the `multi_frameworks` Workflow**

note: the below is an example command to use and query this and trigger `rag_agent`

```bash
aiq run --config_file=examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml --input "tell me about this workflow"
```
**expected output:**

```
(.venv) (base) coder ➜ ~/dev/ai-query-engine $ aiq run --config_file=examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml --input "tell me about this workflow"
/home/coder/dev/ai-query-engine/.venv/lib/python3.12/site-packages/pydantic/_internal/_config.py:341: UserWarning: Valid config keys have changed in V2:
* 'allow_population_by_field_name' has been renamed to 'populate_by_name'
  warnings.warn(message, UserWarning)
2025-01-16 18:53:33,577 - aiq.cli.run - INFO - Loading configuration from: examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml
None of PyTorch, TensorFlow >= 2.0, or Flax have been found. Models won't be available and only tokenizers, configuration and file/data utilities can be used.
##### processing data from ingesting files in this folder : /home/coder/dev/ai-query-engine/examples/multi_frameworks/data/README.md
2025-01-16 18:53:37,559 - httpx - INFO - HTTP Request: POST https://integrate.api.nvidia.com/v1/embeddings "HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
/opt/conda/lib/python3.12/contextlib.py:210: LangChainDeprecationWarning: As of langchain-core 0.3.0, LangChain uses pydantic v2 internally. The langchain_core.pydantic_v1 module was a compatibility shim for pydantic v1, and should no longer be used. Please update the code to import from Pydantic directly.

For example, replace imports like: `from langchain_core.pydantic_v1 import BaseModel`
with: `from pydantic import BaseModel`
or the v1 compatibility namespace if you are working in a code base that has not been fully upgraded to pydantic 2 yet.         from pydantic.v1 import BaseModel

  return await anext(self.gen)
workflow config =  llm_name='meta/llama-3.1-405b-instruct' llm='nim_llm' embedding_name='nvidia/nv-embed-v1' tool_names=['llama_index_rag'] data_dir='/home/coder/dev/ai-query-engine/examples/multi_frameworks/data/README.md'
 <llama_index.core.tools.function_tool.FunctionTool object at 0x7f5d8552b290> <class 'llama_index.core.tools.function_tool.FunctionTool'>

Configuration Summary:
--------------------
Workflow Type: multi_frameworks
Number of Functions: 1
Number of LLMs: 1
Number of Embedders: 0
Number of Memory: 0

2025-01-16 18:53:39,550 - aiq.cli.run - INFO - Processing input: ('tell me about this workflow',)
========== inside **supervisor node**  current status =
 {'input': 'tell me about this workflow', 'chat_history': []}
========== inside **router node**  current status =
 ['input', 'chosen_worker_agent', 'chat_history']
 ############# router to --> workers
========== inside **workers node**  current status =
 {'input': 'tell me about this workflow', 'chat_history': InMemoryChatMessageHistory(messages=[HumanMessage(content='tell me about this workflow', additional_kwargs={}, response_metadata={}), AIMessage(content='Retrieve', additional_kwargs={}, response_metadata={})]), 'chosen_worker_agent': 'Retrieve'}
 <class 'llama_index.core.query_engine.retriever_query_engine.RetrieverQueryEngine'> <llama_index.core.query_engine.retriever_query_engine.RetrieverQueryEngine object at 0x7f5d855282c0> tell me about this workflow
2025-01-16 18:53:41,528 - httpx - INFO - HTTP Request: POST https://integrate.api.nvidia.com/v1/embeddings "HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
2025-01-16 18:53:45,816 - httpx - INFO - HTTP Request: POST https://integrate.api.nvidia.com/v1/chat/completions "HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
 **using rag_tool via llama_index_rag_tool >>> output:
 This workflow is a multi-frameworks example that can be installed locally and run using specific commands. To install the workflow, you need to run `uv pip install -e examples/multi_frameworks`. After installation, you can run the workflow using the command `aiq run --config_file=examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml --input "your query here"`. You can replace "your query here" with any input you want to query the workflow with.
 <class 'str'> This workflow is a multi-frameworks example that can be installed locally and run using specific commands. To install the workflow, you need to run `uv pip install -e examples/multi_frameworks`. After installation, you can run the workflow using the command `aiq run --config_file=examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml --input "your query here"`. You can replace "your query here" with any input you want to query the workflow with.
2025-01-16 18:53:45,821 - aiq.cli.run - INFO - --------------------------------------------------
Workflow Result:
['This workflow is a multi-frameworks example that can be installed locally and run using specific commands. To install the workflow, you need to run `uv pip install -e examples/multi_frameworks`. After installation, you can run the workflow using the command `aiq run --config_file=examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml --input "your query here"`. You can replace "your query here" with any input you want to query the workflow with.']
--------------------------------------------------
Cleaning up multi_frameworks workflow.
2025-01-16 18:53:45,822 - aiq.cli.entrypoint - INFO - Total time: 12.25 sec
2025-01-16 18:53:45,823 - aiq.cli.entrypoin
```
note: the below is an example command to use and query this and trigger `research_agent`

```bash
aiq run --config_file=examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml --input "what is Compound AI?"
```
**expected output:**
```
(.venv) (base) coder ➜ ~/dev/ai-query-engine $ aiq run --config_file=examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml --input "what is Compound AI?"
/home/coder/dev/ai-query-engine/.venv/lib/python3.12/site-packages/pydantic/_internal/_config.py:341: UserWarning: Valid config keys have changed in V2:
* 'allow_population_by_field_name' has been renamed to 'populate_by_name'
  warnings.warn(message, UserWarning)
2025-01-17 11:05:52,074 - aiq.cli.run - INFO - Loading configuration from: examples/multi_frameworks/configs/config.yml
None of PyTorch, TensorFlow >= 2.0, or Flax have been found. Models won't be available and only tokenizers, configuration and file/data utilities can be used.
##### processing data from ingesting files in this folder : /home/coder/dev/ai-query-engine/examples/multi_frameworks/data/README.md
2025-01-17 11:05:55,787 - httpx - INFO - HTTP Request: POST https://integrate.api.nvidia.com/v1/embeddings "HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
/opt/conda/lib/python3.12/contextlib.py:210: LangChainDeprecationWarning: As of langchain-core 0.3.0, LangChain uses pydantic v2 internally. The langchain_core.pydantic_v1 module was a compatibility shim for pydantic v1, and should no longer be used. Please update the code to import from Pydantic directly.

For example, replace imports like: `from langchain_core.pydantic_v1 import BaseModel`
with: `from pydantic import BaseModel`
or the v1 compatibility namespace if you are working in a code base that has not been fully upgraded to pydantic 2 yet.         from pydantic.v1 import BaseModel

  return await anext(self.gen)
workflow config =  llm_name='meta/llama-3.1-405b-instruct' llm='nim_llm' embedding_name='nvidia/nv-embed-v1' tool_names=['llama_index_rag'] data_dir='/home/coder/dev/ai-query-engine/examples/multi_frameworks/data/README.md'
 <llama_index.core.tools.function_tool.FunctionTool object at 0x7f3cfa3c8d10> <class 'llama_index.core.tools.function_tool.FunctionTool'>

Configuration Summary:
--------------------
Workflow Type: multi_frameworks
Number of Tools: 1
Number of LLMs: 1
Number of Embedders: 0
Number of Memory: 0

2025-01-17 11:05:57,360 - aiq.cli.run - INFO - Processing input: ('what is Compound AI?',)
========== inside **supervisor node**  current status =
 {'input': 'what is Compound AI?', 'chat_history': []}
========== inside **router node**  current status =
 ['input', 'chosen_worker_agent', 'chat_history']
 ############# router to --> workers
========== inside **workers node**  current status =
 {'input': 'what is Compound AI?', 'chat_history': InMemoryChatMessageHistory(messages=[HumanMessage(content='what is Compound AI?', additional_kwargs={}, response_metadata={}), AIMessage(content='Research', additional_kwargs={}, response_metadata={})]), 'chosen_worker_agent': 'Research'}
2025-01-17 11:06:00,021 - arxiv - INFO - Requesting page (first: True, try: 0): https://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=Compound+AI&id_list=&sortBy=relevance&sortOrder=descending&start=0&max_results=1
2025-01-17 11:06:01,437 - arxiv - INFO - Got first page: 1 of 51342 total results
2025-01-17 11:06:01,437 - arxiv - INFO - Sleeping: 2.992289 seconds
2025-01-17 11:06:04,430 - arxiv - INFO - Requesting page (first: False, try: 0): https://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=Compound+AI&id_list=&sortBy=relevance&sortOrder=descending&start=1&max_results=1
2025-01-17 11:06:04,885 - arxiv - INFO - Sleeping: 2.997868 seconds
2025-01-17 11:06:07,883 - arxiv - INFO - Requesting page (first: False, try: 0): https://export.arxiv.org/api/query?search_query=Compound+AI&id_list=&sortBy=relevance&sortOrder=descending&start=2&max_results=1
 <class 'str'> In a compound AI system, components such as an LLM call, a retriever, a code
interpreter, or tools are interconnected. The system's behavior is primarily
driven by parameters such as instructions or tool definitions. Recent
advancements enable end-to-end optimization of these parameters using an LLM.
Notably, leveraging an LLM as an optimizer is particularly efficient because it
avoids gradient computation and can generate complex code and instructions.
This paper presents a survey of the principles and emerging trends in LLM-based
optimization of compound AI systems. It covers archetypes of compound AI
systems, approaches to LLM-based end-to-end optimization, and insights into
future directions and broader impacts. Importantly, this survey uses concepts
from program analysis to provide a unified view of how an LLM optimizer is
prompted to optimize a compound AI system. The exhaustive list of paper is
provided at
https://github.com/linyuhongg/LLM-based-Optimization-of-Compound-AI-Systems.
2025-01-17 11:06:08,363 - aiq.cli.run - INFO - --------------------------------------------------
Workflow Result:
["In a compound AI system, components such as an LLM call, a retriever, a code\ninterpreter, or tools are interconnected. The system's behavior is primarily\ndriven by parameters such as instructions or tool definitions. Recent\nadvancements enable end-to-end optimization of these parameters using an LLM.\nNotably, leveraging an LLM as an optimizer is particularly efficient because it\navoids gradient computation and can generate complex code and instructions.\nThis paper presents a survey of the principles and emerging trends in LLM-based\noptimization of compound AI systems. It covers archetypes of compound AI\nsystems, approaches to LLM-based end-to-end optimization, and insights into\nfuture directions and broader impacts. Importantly, this survey uses concepts\nfrom program analysis to provide a unified view of how an LLM optimizer is\nprompted to optimize a compound AI system. The exhaustive list of paper is\nprovided at\nhttps://github.com/linyuhongg/LLM-based-Optimization-of-Compound-AI-Systems."]
--------------------------------------------------
Cleaning up multi_frameworks workflow.
2025-01-17 11:06:08,364 - aiq.cli.entrypoint - INFO - Total time: 16.29 sec
2025-01-17 11:06:08,364 - aiq.cli.entrypoint - INFO - Pipeline runtime: 11.00 sec
```
