docs/source/intro/install.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Install NVIDIA AgentIQ
AgentIQ is a Python library that doesn’t require a GPU to run the workflow by default. You can deploy the core workflows using one of the following:
- Ubuntu or other Linux distributions, including WSL, in a Python virtual environment.

## Install From Source

### Prerequisites

Before you begin using AgentIQ, ensure that you meet the following software prerequisites.

- Install [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- Install [Git Large File Storage](https://git-lfs.github.com/) (LFS)
- Install [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/)


1. Clone the AgentIQ repository to your local machine.
    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:NVIDIA/AgentIQ.git agentiq
    cd agentiq
    ```

1. Initialize, fetch, and update submodules in the Git repository.
    ```bash
    git submodule update --init --recursive
    ```

1. Fetch the data sets by downloading the LFS files.
    ```bash
    git lfs install
    git lfs fetch
    git lfs pull
    ```

1. Create a Python environment.
    ```bash
    uv venv --seed .venv
    source .venv/bin/activate
    ```

1. Install the AgentIQ library.
    To install the AgentIQ library along with all of the optional dependencies. Including developer tools (`--all-groups`) and all of the dependencies needed for profiling and plugins (`--all-extras`) in the source repository, run the following:
    ```bash
    uv sync --all-groups --all-extras
    ```

    Alternatively to install just the core AgentIQ without any plugins, run the following:
    ```bash
    uv sync
    ```

    At this point individual plugins, which are located under the `packages` directory, can be installed with the following command `uv pip install -e '.[<plugin_name>]'`.
    For example, to install the `langchain` plugin, run the following:
    ```bash
    uv pip install -e '.[langchain]'
    ```

    :::{note}
    Many of the example workflows require plugins, and following the documented steps in one of these examples will in turn install the necessary plugins. For example following the steps in the `examples/simple/README.md` guide will install the `agentiq-langchain` plugin if you haven't already done so.
    :::

    In addition to plugins, there are optional dependencies needed for profiling. To install these dependencies, run the following:
    ```bash
    uv pip install -e .[profiling]
    ```


2. Verify that you've installed the AgentIQ library.

     ```bash
     aiq --help
     aiq --version
     ```

     If the installation succeeded, the `aiq` command will log the help message and its current version.



## AgentIQ Packages
Once an AgentIQ workflow is ready for deployment to production, the deployed workflow will need to declare a dependency on the `agentiq` package, along with the needed plugins. When declaring a dependency on AgentIQ it is recommended to use the first two digits of the version number. For example if the version is `1.0.0` then the dependency would be `1.0`.

For more information on the available plugins, refer to the [Framework Integrations](../concepts/plugins.md#framework-integrations) section of the plugins documentation.

Example dependency for AgentIQ using the `langchain` plugin for projects using a `pyproject.toml` file:
```toml
dependencies = [
"agentiq[langchain]~=1.0",
# Add any additional dependencies your workflow needs
]
```

Alternately for projects using a `requirements.txt` file:
```
agentiq[langchain]==1.0.*
```


## Next Steps
After installing AgentIQ, you can start using AgentIQ agentic workflows. For more information, refer to [Get Started with AgentIQ](get-started.md).

Commit message:

Rename AgentIQ to Agent Intelligence Toolkit (#160)
Name Usage:
* Full Name: Agent Intelligence Toolkit
  - Use for document titles, webpage headers, any public descriptions
* Short Name: AIQ Toolkit
  - Use after Agent Intelligence Toolkit has been referenced in blogs, docs, and other public locations
* Uppercase No Space: AIQToolkit
  - Use for situations where capitalization will be preserved like the Github URL, directories, etc.
* Lowercase No Space: aiqtoolkit
  - Use for URLs, pypi package, any place where spaces are not allowed and casing is not preserved.

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/AgentIQ/blob/develop/docs/source/advanced/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - David Gardner (https://github.com/dagardner-nv)

Approvers:
  - Anuradha Karuppiah (https://github.com/AnuradhaKaruppiah)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/pull/160

docs/source/intro/install.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Install NVIDIA Agent Intelligence Toolkit
Agent Intelligence Toolkit (AIQ Toolkit) is a Python library that doesn’t require a GPU to run the workflow by default. You can deploy the core workflows using one of the following:
- Ubuntu or other Linux distributions, including WSL, in a Python virtual environment.

## Install From Source

### Prerequisites

Before you begin using AIQ Toolkit, ensure that you meet the following software prerequisites.

- Install [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- Install [Git Large File Storage](https://git-lfs.github.com/) (LFS)
- Install [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/)


1. Clone the AIQ Toolkit repository to your local machine.
    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:NVIDIA/AIQToolkit.git aiqtoolkit
    cd aiqtoolkit
    ```

1. Initialize, fetch, and update submodules in the Git repository.
    ```bash
    git submodule update --init --recursive
    ```

1. Fetch the data sets by downloading the LFS files.
    ```bash
    git lfs install
    git lfs fetch
    git lfs pull
    ```

1. Create a Python environment.
    ```bash
    uv venv --seed .venv
    source .venv/bin/activate
    ```

1. Install the AIQ Toolkit library.
    To install the AIQ Toolkit library along with all of the optional dependencies. Including developer tools (`--all-groups`) and all of the dependencies needed for profiling and plugins (`--all-extras`) in the source repository, run the following:
    ```bash
    uv sync --all-groups --all-extras
    ```

    Alternatively to install just the core AIQ Toolkit without any plugins, run the following:
    ```bash
    uv sync
    ```

    At this point individual plugins, which are located under the `packages` directory, can be installed with the following command `uv pip install -e '.[<plugin_name>]'`.
    For example, to install the `langchain` plugin, run the following:
    ```bash
    uv pip install -e '.[langchain]'
    ```

    :::{note}
    Many of the example workflows require plugins, and following the documented steps in one of these examples will in turn install the necessary plugins. For example following the steps in the `examples/simple/README.md` guide will install the `aiqtoolkit-langchain` plugin if you haven't already done so.
    :::

    In addition to plugins, there are optional dependencies needed for profiling. To install these dependencies, run the following:
    ```bash
    uv pip install -e .[profiling]
    ```


2. Verify that you've installed the AIQ Toolkit library.

     ```bash
     aiq --help
     aiq --version
     ```

     If the installation succeeded, the `aiq` command will log the help message and its current version.



## AIQ Toolkit Packages
Once an AIQ Toolkit workflow is ready for deployment to production, the deployed workflow will need to declare a dependency on the `aiqtoolkit` package, along with the needed plugins. When declaring a dependency on AIQ Toolkit it is recommended to use the first two digits of the version number. For example if the version is `1.0.0` then the dependency would be `1.0`.

For more information on the available plugins, refer to the [Framework Integrations](../concepts/plugins.md#framework-integrations) section of the plugins documentation.

Example dependency for AIQ Toolkit using the `langchain` plugin for projects using a `pyproject.toml` file:
```toml
dependencies = [
"aiqtoolkit[langchain]~=1.0",
# Add any additional dependencies your workflow needs
]
```

Alternately for projects using a `requirements.txt` file:
```
aiqtoolkit[langchain]==1.0.*
```


## Next Steps
After installing AIQ Toolkit, you can start using AIQ Toolkit agentic workflows. For more information, refer to [Get Started with AIQ Toolkit](get-started.md).
