docs/source/tutorials/add-tools-to-a-workflow.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Add Tools to a Workflow

The [Customizing a Workflow](./customize-a-workflow.md) tutorial demonstrates how to customize a workflow by overriding parameters. This tutorial will demonstrate how to add new tools to a workflow. Adding a new tool to a workflow requires copying and modifying the workflow configuration file, which, in effect, creates a new customized workflow.

AIQ toolkit includes several built-in tools (functions) that can be used in any workflow. To query for a list of installed tools, run the following command:
```bash
aiq info components -t function
```

The current workflow defines a tool to query the [LangSmith User Guide](https://docs.smith.langchain.com). This is defined in the `tools` section of the configuration file:
```yaml
functions:
  webpage_query:
    _type: webpage_query
    webpage_url: https://docs.smith.langchain.com
    description: "Search for information about LangSmith. For any questions about LangSmith, you must use this tool!"
    embedder_name: nv-embedqa-e5-v5
    chunk_size: 512
```

However, the workflow is unaware of some related technologies, such as LangGraph, if you run:
```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/basic/functions/simple/configs/config.yml --input "How does LangSmith interact with tools like LangGraph?"
```

The output will be similar to the following:
```
Workflow Result:
["Unfortunately, I couldn't find any information about LangSmith's interaction with LangGraph. The user guide does not mention LangGraph, and I couldn't find any relevant information through the webpage queries."]
```

You can solve this by updating the workflow to also query the [LangGraph Quickstart](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/tutorials/introduction) guide.

To do this, create a copy of the original workflow configuration file. To add the LangGraph query tool to the workflow, update the YAML file updating the `functions` section from:
```yaml
functions:
  webpage_query:
    _type: webpage_query
    webpage_url: https://docs.smith.langchain.com
    description: "Search for information about LangSmith. For any questions about LangSmith, you must use this tool!"
    embedder_name: nv-embedqa-e5-v5
    chunk_size: 512
```

to:
```yaml
functions:
  langsmith_query:
    _type: webpage_query
    webpage_url: https://docs.smith.langchain.com
    description: "Search for information about LangSmith. For any questions about LangSmith, you must use this tool!"
    embedder_name: nv-embedqa-e5-v5
    chunk_size: 512
  langgraph_query:
    _type: webpage_query
    webpage_url: https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/tutorials/introduction
    description: "Search for information about LangGraph. For any questions about LangGraph, you must use this tool!"
    embedder_name: nv-embedqa-e5-v5
    chunk_size: 512
```

Since you now have two instances of the `webpage_query` tool, you need to update the name of the first tool to `langsmith_query`.

Finally, update the `workflow.tool_names` section to include the new tool from:
```yaml
workflow:
  _type: react_agent
  tool_names: [webpage_query, current_datetime]
```

to:
```yaml
workflow:
  _type: react_agent
  tool_names: [langsmith_query, langgraph_query, current_datetime]
```

:::{note}
The resulting YAML is located at `examples/documentation_guides/workflows/custom_workflow/custom_config.yml` in the AIQ toolkit repository.
:::

When you rerun the workflow with the updated configuration file:
```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/documentation_guides/workflows/custom_workflow/custom_config.yml \
  --input "How does LangSmith interact with tools like LangGraph?"
```

We should receive output similar to:
```
Workflow Result:
['LangSmith interacts with LangGraph as part of an out-of-the-box solution for building complex, production-ready features with LLMs. LangGraph works in conjunction with LangSmith to provide this solution, and they are both part of the LangChain ecosystem.']
```

## Alternate Method Using a Web Search Tool
Adding individual web pages to a workflow can be cumbersome, especially when dealing with multiple web pages. An alternative method is to use a web search tool. One of the tools available in AIQ toolkit is the `tavily_internet_search` tool, which utilizes the [Tavily Search API](https://tavily.com/).

The `tavily_internet_search` tool is part of the `aiqtoolkit[langchain]` package, to install the package run:
```bash
# local package install from source
uv pip install -e '.[langchain]'
```

Prior to using the `tavily_internet_search` tool, create an account at [`tavily.com`](https://tavily.com/) and obtain an API key. Once obtained, set the `TAVILY_API_KEY` environment variable to the API key:
```bash
export TAVILY_API_KEY=<YOUR_TAVILY_API_KEY>
```

We will now update the `functions` section of the configuration file replacing the two `webpage_query` tools with a single `tavily_internet_search` tool entry:
```yaml
functions:
  internet_search:
    _type: tavily_internet_search
  current_datetime:
    _type: current_datetime
```

Next, update the `workflow.tool_names` section to include the new tool:
```yaml
workflow:
  _type: react_agent
  tool_names: [internet_search, current_datetime]
```

The resulting configuration file is located at `examples/documentation_guides/workflows/custom_workflow/search_config.yml` in the AIQ toolkit repository.

When you re-run the workflow with the updated configuration file:
```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/documentation_guides/workflows/custom_workflow/search_config.yml \
  --input "How does LangSmith interact with tools like LangGraph?"
```

Which will then yield a slightly different result to the same question:
```
Workflow Result:
['LangSmith interacts with LangGraph through the LangChain ecosystem, which provides the foundation for building LLM applications. LangGraph provides real-time monitoring, tracing, and debugging capabilities, and it can be used in conjunction with LangSmith to build robust agentic applications.']
```

Commit message:

NeMo Agent rename (#422)
Closes

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Agent-Toolkit/blob/develop/docs/source/resources/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - https://github.com/lvojtku
  - franz101 (https://github.com/franz101)
  - https://github.com/sugsharma
  - Eric Evans II (https://github.com/ericevans-nv)
  - Anuradha Karuppiah (https://github.com/AnuradhaKaruppiah)
  - Yuchen Zhang (https://github.com/yczhang-nv)
  - Michael Demoret (https://github.com/mdemoret-nv)

Approvers:
  - David Gardner (https://github.com/dagardner-nv)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Agent-Toolkit/pull/422

docs/source/tutorials/add-tools-to-a-workflow.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Add Tools to a Workflow

The [Customizing a Workflow](./customize-a-workflow.md) tutorial demonstrates how to customize a workflow by overriding parameters. This tutorial will demonstrate how to add new tools to a workflow. Adding a new tool to a workflow requires copying and modifying the workflow configuration file, which, in effect, creates a new customized workflow.

NeMo Agent toolkit includes several built-in tools (functions) that can be used in any workflow. To query for a list of installed tools, run the following command:
```bash
aiq info components -t function
```

The current workflow defines a tool to query the [LangSmith User Guide](https://docs.smith.langchain.com). This is defined in the `tools` section of the configuration file:
```yaml
functions:
  webpage_query:
    _type: webpage_query
    webpage_url: https://docs.smith.langchain.com
    description: "Search for information about LangSmith. For any questions about LangSmith, you must use this tool!"
    embedder_name: nv-embedqa-e5-v5
    chunk_size: 512
```

However, the workflow is unaware of some related technologies, such as LangGraph, if you run:
```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/basic/functions/simple/configs/config.yml --input "How does LangSmith interact with tools like LangGraph?"
```

The output will be similar to the following:
```
Workflow Result:
["Unfortunately, I couldn't find any information about LangSmith's interaction with LangGraph. The user guide does not mention LangGraph, and I couldn't find any relevant information through the webpage queries."]
```

You can solve this by updating the workflow to also query the [LangGraph Quickstart](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/tutorials/introduction) guide.

To do this, create a copy of the original workflow configuration file. To add the LangGraph query tool to the workflow, update the YAML file updating the `functions` section from:
```yaml
functions:
  webpage_query:
    _type: webpage_query
    webpage_url: https://docs.smith.langchain.com
    description: "Search for information about LangSmith. For any questions about LangSmith, you must use this tool!"
    embedder_name: nv-embedqa-e5-v5
    chunk_size: 512
```

to:
```yaml
functions:
  langsmith_query:
    _type: webpage_query
    webpage_url: https://docs.smith.langchain.com
    description: "Search for information about LangSmith. For any questions about LangSmith, you must use this tool!"
    embedder_name: nv-embedqa-e5-v5
    chunk_size: 512
  langgraph_query:
    _type: webpage_query
    webpage_url: https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/tutorials/introduction
    description: "Search for information about LangGraph. For any questions about LangGraph, you must use this tool!"
    embedder_name: nv-embedqa-e5-v5
    chunk_size: 512
```

Since you now have two instances of the `webpage_query` tool, you need to update the name of the first tool to `langsmith_query`.

Finally, update the `workflow.tool_names` section to include the new tool from:
```yaml
workflow:
  _type: react_agent
  tool_names: [webpage_query, current_datetime]
```

to:
```yaml
workflow:
  _type: react_agent
  tool_names: [langsmith_query, langgraph_query, current_datetime]
```

:::{note}
The resulting YAML is located at `examples/documentation_guides/workflows/custom_workflow/custom_config.yml` in the NeMo Agent toolkit repository.
:::

When you rerun the workflow with the updated configuration file:
```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/documentation_guides/workflows/custom_workflow/custom_config.yml \
  --input "How does LangSmith interact with tools like LangGraph?"
```

We should receive output similar to:
```
Workflow Result:
['LangSmith interacts with LangGraph as part of an out-of-the-box solution for building complex, production-ready features with LLMs. LangGraph works in conjunction with LangSmith to provide this solution, and they are both part of the LangChain ecosystem.']
```

## Alternate Method Using a Web Search Tool
Adding individual web pages to a workflow can be cumbersome, especially when dealing with multiple web pages. An alternative method is to use a web search tool. One of the tools available in NeMo Agent toolkit is the `tavily_internet_search` tool, which utilizes the [Tavily Search API](https://tavily.com/).

The `tavily_internet_search` tool is part of the `aiqtoolkit[langchain]` package, to install the package run:
```bash
# local package install from source
uv pip install -e '.[langchain]'
```

Prior to using the `tavily_internet_search` tool, create an account at [`tavily.com`](https://tavily.com/) and obtain an API key. Once obtained, set the `TAVILY_API_KEY` environment variable to the API key:
```bash
export TAVILY_API_KEY=<YOUR_TAVILY_API_KEY>
```

We will now update the `functions` section of the configuration file replacing the two `webpage_query` tools with a single `tavily_internet_search` tool entry:
```yaml
functions:
  internet_search:
    _type: tavily_internet_search
  current_datetime:
    _type: current_datetime
```

Next, update the `workflow.tool_names` section to include the new tool:
```yaml
workflow:
  _type: react_agent
  tool_names: [internet_search, current_datetime]
```

The resulting configuration file is located at `examples/documentation_guides/workflows/custom_workflow/search_config.yml` in the NeMo Agent toolkit repository.

When you re-run the workflow with the updated configuration file:
```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/documentation_guides/workflows/custom_workflow/search_config.yml \
  --input "How does LangSmith interact with tools like LangGraph?"
```

Which will then yield a slightly different result to the same question:
```
Workflow Result:
['LangSmith interacts with LangGraph through the LangChain ecosystem, which provides the foundation for building LLM applications. LangGraph provides real-time monitoring, tracing, and debugging capabilities, and it can be used in conjunction with LangSmith to build robust agentic applications.']
```
