docs/source/workflows/using-local-llms.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Using Local LLMs

AIQ toolkit has the ability to interact with locally hosted LLMs, in this guide we will demonstrate how to adapt the AIQ toolkit simple example (`examples/basic/functions/simple`) to use locally hosted LLMs using two different approaches using [NVIDIA NIM](https://docs.nvidia.com/nim/) and [vLLM](https://docs.vllm.ai/).

## Using NIM
In the AIQ toolkit simple example the [`meta/llama-3.1-70b-instruct`](https://build.nvidia.com/meta/llama-3_1-70b-instruct) model was used. For the purposes of this guide we will be using a smaller model, the [`microsoft/phi-3-mini-4k-instruct`](https://build.nvidia.com/microsoft/phi-3-mini-4k) which is more likely to be runnable on a local workstation.

Regardless of the model you choose, the process is the same for downloading the model's container from [`build.nvidia.com`](https://build.nvidia.com/). Navigate to the model you wish to run locally, if it is able to be downloaded it will be labeled with the `RUN ANYWHERE` tag, the exact commands will be specified on the `Deploy` tab for the model.

### Requirements
- An NVIDIA GPU with CUDA support (exact requirements depend on the model you are using)
- [The NVIDIA Container Toolkit](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/latest/install-guide.html#installation)
- An NVIDIA API key, refer to [Obtaining API Keys](../quick-start/installing.md#obtaining-api-keys) for more information.

### Downloading the NIM Containers

Login to nvcr.io with Docker:
```
$ docker login nvcr.io
Username: $oauthtoken
Password: <PASTE_API_KEY_HERE>
```

Download the container for the LLM:
```bash
docker pull nvcr.io/nim/microsoft/phi-3-mini-4k-instruct:latest
```

Download the container for the embedding Model:
```bash
docker pull nvcr.io/nim/nvidia/nv-embedqa-e5-v5:latest
```


### Running the NIM Containers
Run the LLM container listening on port 8000:
```bash
export NGC_API_KEY=<PASTE_API_KEY_HERE>
export LOCAL_NIM_CACHE=~/.cache/nim
mkdir -p "$LOCAL_NIM_CACHE"
docker run -it --rm \
    --gpus all \
    --shm-size=16GB \
    -e NGC_API_KEY \
    -v "$LOCAL_NIM_CACHE:/opt/nim/.cache" \
    -u $(id -u) \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    nvcr.io/nim/microsoft/phi-3-mini-4k-instruct:latest
```

Open a new terminal and run the embedding model container, listening on port 8001:
```bash
export NGC_API_KEY=<PASTE_API_KEY_HERE>
export LOCAL_NIM_CACHE=~/.cache/nim
docker run -it --rm \
    --gpus all \
    --shm-size=16GB \
    -e NGC_API_KEY \
    -v "$LOCAL_NIM_CACHE:/opt/nim/.cache" \
    -u $(id -u) \
    -p 8001:8000 \
    nvcr.io/nim/nvidia/nv-embedqa-e5-v5:latest
```

### AIQ Toolkit Configuration
To define the pipeline configuration, we will start with the `examples/basic/functions/simple/configs/config.yml` file and modify it to use the locally hosted LLMs, the only changes needed are to define the `base_url` for the LLM and embedding models, along with the names of the models to use.

`examples/documentation_guides/locally_hosted_llms/nim_config.yml`:
```yaml
functions:
  webpage_query:
    _type: webpage_query
    webpage_url: https://docs.smith.langchain.com
    description: "Search for information about LangSmith. For any questions about LangSmith, you must use this tool!"
    embedder_name: nv-embedqa-e5-v5
    chunk_size: 512
  current_datetime:
    _type: current_datetime

llms:
  nim_llm:
    _type: nim
    base_url: "http://localhost:8000/v1"
    model_name: microsoft/phi-3-mini-4k-instruct

embedders:
  nv-embedqa-e5-v5:
    _type: nim
    base_url: "http://localhost:8001/v1"
    model_name: nvidia/nv-embedqa-e5-v5

workflow:
  _type: react_agent
  tool_names: [webpage_query, current_datetime]
  llm_name: nim_llm
  verbose: true
  retry_parsing_errors: true
  max_retries: 3
```

### Running the AIQ Toolkit Workflow
To run the AIQ toolkit workflow using the locally hosted LLMs, run the following command:
```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/documentation_guides/locally_hosted_llms/nim_config.yml --input "What is LangSmith?"
```


## Using vLLM

vLLM provides an [OpenAI-Compatible Server](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/getting_started/quickstart.html#openai-compatible-server) allowing us to re-use our existing OpenAI clients. If you have not already done so, install vLLM following the [Quickstart](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/getting_started/quickstart.html) guide. Similar to the previous example we will be using the same [`microsoft/Phi-3-mini-4k-instruct`](https://huggingface.co/microsoft/Phi-3-mini-4k-instruct) LLM model. Along with the [`ssmits/Qwen2-7B-Instruct-embed-base`](https://huggingface.co/ssmits/Qwen2-7B-Instruct-embed-base)embedding model.

### Serving the Models
Similar to the NIM approach we will be running the LLM on the default port of 8000 and the embedding model on port 8001.

In a terminal from within the vLLM environment, run the following command to serve the LLM:
```bash
vllm serve microsoft/Phi-3-mini-4k-instruct
```

In a second terminal also from within the vLLM environment, run the following command to serve the embedding model:
```bash
vllm serve --task embed --override-pooler-config '{"pooling_type": "MEAN"}' --port 8001 ssmits/Qwen2-7B-Instruct-embed-base
```

> Note: The `--override-pooler-config` flag is taken from the [vLLM Supported Models](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/models/supported_models.html#text-embedding) documentation.


### AIQ Toolkit Configuration
The pipeline configuration will be similar to the NIM example, with the key differences being the selection of `openai` as the `_type` for the LLM and embedding models. The OpenAI clients we are using to communicate with the vLLM server expect an API key, we simply need to provide a value key, as the vLLM server does not require authentication.
`examples/documentation_guides/locally_hosted_llms/vllm_config.yml`:
```yaml
functions:
  webpage_query:
    _type: webpage_query
    webpage_url: https://docs.smith.langchain.com
    description: "Search for information about LangSmith. For any questions about LangSmith, you must use this tool!"
    embedder_name: vllm_embedder
    chunk_size: 512
  current_datetime:
    _type: current_datetime

llms:
  vllm_llm:
    _type: openai
    api_key: "EMPTY"
    base_url: "http://localhost:8000/v1"
    model_name: microsoft/Phi-3-mini-4k-instruct
    max_tokens: 4096

embedders:
  vllm_embedder:
    _type: openai
    api_key: "EMPTY"
    base_url: "http://localhost:8001/v1"
    model_name: ssmits/Qwen2-7B-Instruct-embed-base

workflow:
  _type: react_agent
  tool_names: [webpage_query, current_datetime]
  llm_name: vllm_llm
  verbose: true
  retry_parsing_errors: true
  max_retries: 3
```

### Running the AIQ Toolkit Workflow
To run the AIQ toolkit workflow using the locally hosted LLMs, run the following command:
```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/documentation_guides/locally_hosted_llms/vllm_config.yml --input "What is LangSmith?"
```

Commit message:

NeMo Agent rename (#422)
Closes

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Agent-Toolkit/blob/develop/docs/source/resources/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - https://github.com/lvojtku
  - franz101 (https://github.com/franz101)
  - https://github.com/sugsharma
  - Eric Evans II (https://github.com/ericevans-nv)
  - Anuradha Karuppiah (https://github.com/AnuradhaKaruppiah)
  - Yuchen Zhang (https://github.com/yczhang-nv)
  - Michael Demoret (https://github.com/mdemoret-nv)

Approvers:
  - David Gardner (https://github.com/dagardner-nv)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Agent-Toolkit/pull/422

docs/source/workflows/using-local-llms.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Using Local LLMs

NeMo Agent toolkit has the ability to interact with locally hosted LLMs, in this guide we will demonstrate how to adapt the simple example (`examples/basic/functions/simple`) to use locally hosted LLMs using two different approaches using [NVIDIA NIM](https://docs.nvidia.com/nim/) and [vLLM](https://docs.vllm.ai/).

## Using NIM
In the NeMo Agent toolkit simple example the [`meta/llama-3.1-70b-instruct`](https://build.nvidia.com/meta/llama-3_1-70b-instruct) model was used. For the purposes of this guide we will be using a smaller model, the [`microsoft/phi-3-mini-4k-instruct`](https://build.nvidia.com/microsoft/phi-3-mini-4k) which is more likely to be runnable on a local workstation.

Regardless of the model you choose, the process is the same for downloading the model's container from [`build.nvidia.com`](https://build.nvidia.com/). Navigate to the model you wish to run locally, if it is able to be downloaded it will be labeled with the `RUN ANYWHERE` tag, the exact commands will be specified on the `Deploy` tab for the model.

### Requirements
- An NVIDIA GPU with CUDA support (exact requirements depend on the model you are using)
- [The NVIDIA Container Toolkit](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/latest/install-guide.html#installation)
- An NVIDIA API key, refer to [Obtaining API Keys](../quick-start/installing.md#obtaining-api-keys) for more information.

### Downloading the NIM Containers

Login to nvcr.io with Docker:
```
$ docker login nvcr.io
Username: $oauthtoken
Password: <PASTE_API_KEY_HERE>
```

Download the container for the LLM:
```bash
docker pull nvcr.io/nim/microsoft/phi-3-mini-4k-instruct:latest
```

Download the container for the embedding Model:
```bash
docker pull nvcr.io/nim/nvidia/nv-embedqa-e5-v5:latest
```


### Running the NIM Containers
Run the LLM container listening on port 8000:
```bash
export NGC_API_KEY=<PASTE_API_KEY_HERE>
export LOCAL_NIM_CACHE=~/.cache/nim
mkdir -p "$LOCAL_NIM_CACHE"
docker run -it --rm \
    --gpus all \
    --shm-size=16GB \
    -e NGC_API_KEY \
    -v "$LOCAL_NIM_CACHE:/opt/nim/.cache" \
    -u $(id -u) \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    nvcr.io/nim/microsoft/phi-3-mini-4k-instruct:latest
```

Open a new terminal and run the embedding model container, listening on port 8001:
```bash
export NGC_API_KEY=<PASTE_API_KEY_HERE>
export LOCAL_NIM_CACHE=~/.cache/nim
docker run -it --rm \
    --gpus all \
    --shm-size=16GB \
    -e NGC_API_KEY \
    -v "$LOCAL_NIM_CACHE:/opt/nim/.cache" \
    -u $(id -u) \
    -p 8001:8000 \
    nvcr.io/nim/nvidia/nv-embedqa-e5-v5:latest
```

### NeMo Agent Toolkit Configuration
To define the pipeline configuration, we will start with the `examples/basic/functions/simple/configs/config.yml` file and modify it to use the locally hosted LLMs, the only changes needed are to define the `base_url` for the LLM and embedding models, along with the names of the models to use.

`examples/documentation_guides/locally_hosted_llms/nim_config.yml`:
```yaml
functions:
  webpage_query:
    _type: webpage_query
    webpage_url: https://docs.smith.langchain.com
    description: "Search for information about LangSmith. For any questions about LangSmith, you must use this tool!"
    embedder_name: nv-embedqa-e5-v5
    chunk_size: 512
  current_datetime:
    _type: current_datetime

llms:
  nim_llm:
    _type: nim
    base_url: "http://localhost:8000/v1"
    model_name: microsoft/phi-3-mini-4k-instruct

embedders:
  nv-embedqa-e5-v5:
    _type: nim
    base_url: "http://localhost:8001/v1"
    model_name: nvidia/nv-embedqa-e5-v5

workflow:
  _type: react_agent
  tool_names: [webpage_query, current_datetime]
  llm_name: nim_llm
  verbose: true
  retry_parsing_errors: true
  max_retries: 3
```

### Running the NeMo Agent Toolkit Workflow
To run the workflow using the locally hosted LLMs, run the following command:
```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/documentation_guides/locally_hosted_llms/nim_config.yml --input "What is LangSmith?"
```


## Using vLLM

vLLM provides an [OpenAI-Compatible Server](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/getting_started/quickstart.html#openai-compatible-server) allowing us to re-use our existing OpenAI clients. If you have not already done so, install vLLM following the [Quickstart](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/getting_started/quickstart.html) guide. Similar to the previous example we will be using the same [`microsoft/Phi-3-mini-4k-instruct`](https://huggingface.co/microsoft/Phi-3-mini-4k-instruct) LLM model. Along with the [`ssmits/Qwen2-7B-Instruct-embed-base`](https://huggingface.co/ssmits/Qwen2-7B-Instruct-embed-base)embedding model.

### Serving the Models
Similar to the NIM approach we will be running the LLM on the default port of 8000 and the embedding model on port 8001.

In a terminal from within the vLLM environment, run the following command to serve the LLM:
```bash
vllm serve microsoft/Phi-3-mini-4k-instruct
```

In a second terminal also from within the vLLM environment, run the following command to serve the embedding model:
```bash
vllm serve --task embed --override-pooler-config '{"pooling_type": "MEAN"}' --port 8001 ssmits/Qwen2-7B-Instruct-embed-base
```

> Note: The `--override-pooler-config` flag is taken from the [vLLM Supported Models](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/models/supported_models.html#text-embedding) documentation.


### NeMo Agent Toolkit Configuration
The pipeline configuration will be similar to the NIM example, with the key differences being the selection of `openai` as the `_type` for the LLM and embedding models. The OpenAI clients we are using to communicate with the vLLM server expect an API key, we simply need to provide a value key, as the vLLM server does not require authentication.
`examples/documentation_guides/locally_hosted_llms/vllm_config.yml`:
```yaml
functions:
  webpage_query:
    _type: webpage_query
    webpage_url: https://docs.smith.langchain.com
    description: "Search for information about LangSmith. For any questions about LangSmith, you must use this tool!"
    embedder_name: vllm_embedder
    chunk_size: 512
  current_datetime:
    _type: current_datetime

llms:
  vllm_llm:
    _type: openai
    api_key: "EMPTY"
    base_url: "http://localhost:8000/v1"
    model_name: microsoft/Phi-3-mini-4k-instruct
    max_tokens: 4096

embedders:
  vllm_embedder:
    _type: openai
    api_key: "EMPTY"
    base_url: "http://localhost:8001/v1"
    model_name: ssmits/Qwen2-7B-Instruct-embed-base

workflow:
  _type: react_agent
  tool_names: [webpage_query, current_datetime]
  llm_name: vllm_llm
  verbose: true
  retry_parsing_errors: true
  max_retries: 3
```

### Running the NeMo Agent Toolkit Workflow
To run the workflow using the locally hosted LLMs, run the following command:
```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/documentation_guides/locally_hosted_llms/vllm_config.yml --input "What is LangSmith?"
```
