docs/source/reference/evaluate-api.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2024-2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Evaluate API Endpoints
:::{note}
It is recommended that the [Evaluating AIQ toolkit Workflows](./evaluate.md) guide be read before proceeding with this detailed documentation.
:::

The evaluation endpoint can be used to start evaluation jobs on a remote AIQ toolkit server.

## Evaluation Endpoint Overview
```{mermaid}
graph TD
  A["POST /evaluate"] --> B["Background Job Created"]
  B --> C["GET /evaluate/job/{job_id}"]
  B --> D["GET /evaluate/job/last"]
  B --> E["GET /evaluate/jobs"]
```

## Start AIQ Toolkit API Server
See AIQ toolkit [UI and Server](./../quick-start/launching-ui.md) guide for instructions on starting the AIQ toolkit server.
Sample Usage:
```bash
aiq serve --config_file=examples/basic/functions/simple/configs/config.yml
```

## Evaluate Request and Response
The /evaluate endpoint allows you to start an evaluation job. The request is stored for background processing, and the server returns a job ID for tracking the job status.

The `config_file` parameter is the path to the evaluation configuration file on the remote server. Only the `eval` section of the config file is used for evaluation. The `workflow` section is not required. If the `workflow` section is provided, it is instantiated but not used. So it is recommended to not provide a `workflow` section in the evaluation configuration file.

### Evaluate Request
- **Route**: `/evaluate`
- **Method**: `POST`
- **Description**: Start evaluation. Evaluates the performance and accuracy of the workflow on a dataset.
- HTTP Request Example:
```bash
curl --request POST \
   --url http://localhost:8000/evaluate \
   --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
   --data '{
    "config_file": "examples/basic/functions/simple/configs/eval_only_config.yml",
    "expiry_seconds": 600
}' | jq
```
You can optionally pipe the output to `jq` for response formatting.

### Evaluate Request Format
`AIQEvaluateRequest`:
- `config_file`: Path to the evaluation configuration file on the remote server.
- `job_id`: Unique identifier for the evaluation job. If not provided, a new job ID is generated.
- `reps`: Number of repetitions for the evaluation. Defaults to 1.
- `expiry_seconds`: Optional time (in seconds) before the job expires. This is clamped between 600 (10 min) and 86400 (24h). Defaults to 3600 seconds (1 hour).

### Evaluate Response
The evaluation request is stored as a background job in the server and the endpoint returns a job ID and status. Sample response:
```json
{
  "job_id": "882317f0-6149-4b29-872b-9c8018d64784",
  "status": "submitted"
}
```

### Evaluate Response Format
`AIQEvaluateResponse`:
- `job_id`: Unique identifier for the evaluation job.
- `status`: Status of the evaluation job. Possible values are:
**Possible `status` values**:
- `submitted` – The job has been submitted and is waiting to be processed.
- `running` – The job is currently being processed.
- `success` – The job has completed successfully.
- `failure` – The job has failed.
- `interrupted` – The job was interrupted before completion.
- `not_found` – The job ID was not found.


## Evaluate Job Status
### Job Status by ID
A submitted job's status can be checked using the job ID. The status endpoint is defined as follows:
- **Route**: `/evaluate/job/{job_id}`
- **Method**: `GET`
- **Description**: Get the status of a submitted evaluation job using the job ID.
- HTTP Request Example:
```bash
curl --request GET \
   --url http://localhost:8000/evaluate/job/882317f0-6149-4b29-872b-9c8018d64784 | jq
```

### Evaluate Job Status Response
The response contains the status of the job, including the job ID, status, and any error messages if applicable. Sample response:
```json
{
  "job_id": "882317f0-6149-4b29-872b-9c8018d64784",
  "status": "success",
  "config_file": "examples/basic/functions/simple/configs/eval_only_config.yml",
  "error": null,
  "output_path": ".tmp/aiq/examples/basic/functions/simple/jobs/882317f0-6149-4b29-872b-9c8018d64784",
  "created_at": "2025-04-11T17:33:38.018904Z",
  "updated_at": "2025-04-11T17:34:40.359080Z",
  "expires_at": "2025-04-11T17:44:40.359080Z"
}
```

### Job Status: Last Submitted Job
The last job status can be checked using the following endpoint:
- **Route**: `/evaluate/job/last`
- **Method**: `GET`
- **Description**: Get the status of the last submitted evaluation job.
- HTTP Request Example:
```bash
curl --request GET \
   --url http://localhost:8000/evaluate/job/last | jq
```

### Status of all jobs
The status of all jobs can be checked using the following endpoint:
- **Route**: `/evaluate/jobs`
- **Method**: `GET`
- **Description**: Get the status of all submitted evaluation jobs.
- HTTP Request Example:
```bash
curl --request GET \
   --url http://localhost:8000/evaluate/jobs | jq
```

#### Sample Response
```bash
[
  {
    "job_id": "df6fddd7-2adf-45dd-a105-8559a7569ec9",
    "status": "success",
    "config_file": "examples/basic/functions/simple/configs/eval_only_config.yml",
    "error": null,
    "output_path": ".tmp/aiq/examples/basic/functions/simple/jobs/df6fddd7-2adf-45dd-a105-8559a7569ec9",
    "created_at": "2025-04-11T17:33:16.711636Z",
    "updated_at": "2025-04-11T17:34:24.753742Z",
    "expires_at": "2025-04-11T17:44:24.753742Z"
  },
  ...
]
```

## Output Storage
A separate output directory is created for each job. The output directory contains the evaluation results, including the evaluation metrics and any generated files. The `jobs/{job-id}` is appended to the `eval.general.output.dir` configuration parameter in the evaluation configuration file to maintain the results of each job. If upload to remote storage is enabled, `jobs/{job-id}` is similarly appended to the `eval.general.output.remote_dir` configuration parameter in the evaluation configuration file.

### Output Directory Cleanup
As the results are maintained per-job, output directory cleanup is recommended. This can be done by enabling `eval.general.output.cleanup` in the evaluation configuration file. If this configuration is enabled, the server removes the entire contents of the output directory at the start of each job. This way only the last job's results are kept in the output directory.

### Job Expiry
You can also configure the expiry timer per-job using the `expiry_seconds` parameter in the `AIQEvaluateRequest`. The server will automatically clean up expired jobs based on this timer. The default expiry value is 3600 seconds (1 hour). The expiration time is clamped between 600 (10 min) and 86400 (24h).

This cleanup includes both the job metadata and the contents of the output directory. The most recently finished job is always preserved, even if expired. Similarly, active jobs, `["submitted", "running"]`, are exempt from cleanup.

Commit message:

NeMo Agent rename (#422)
Closes

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Agent-Toolkit/blob/develop/docs/source/resources/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - https://github.com/lvojtku
  - franz101 (https://github.com/franz101)
  - https://github.com/sugsharma
  - Eric Evans II (https://github.com/ericevans-nv)
  - Anuradha Karuppiah (https://github.com/AnuradhaKaruppiah)
  - Yuchen Zhang (https://github.com/yczhang-nv)
  - Michael Demoret (https://github.com/mdemoret-nv)

Approvers:
  - David Gardner (https://github.com/dagardner-nv)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Agent-Toolkit/pull/422

docs/source/reference/evaluate-api.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2024-2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Evaluate API Endpoints
:::{note}
It is recommended that the [Evaluating NeMo Agent toolkit Workflows](./evaluate.md) guide be read before proceeding with this detailed documentation.
:::

The evaluation endpoint can be used to start evaluation jobs on a remote NeMo Agent toolkit server.

## Evaluation Endpoint Overview
```{mermaid}
graph TD
  A["POST /evaluate"] --> B["Background Job Created"]
  B --> C["GET /evaluate/job/{job_id}"]
  B --> D["GET /evaluate/job/last"]
  B --> E["GET /evaluate/jobs"]
```

## Start NeMo Agent Toolkit API Server
See NeMo Agent toolkit [UI and Server](./../quick-start/launching-ui.md) guide for instructions on starting the NeMo Agent toolkit server.
Sample Usage:
```bash
aiq serve --config_file=examples/basic/functions/simple/configs/config.yml
```

## Evaluate Request and Response
The /evaluate endpoint allows you to start an evaluation job. The request is stored for background processing, and the server returns a job ID for tracking the job status.

The `config_file` parameter is the path to the evaluation configuration file on the remote server. Only the `eval` section of the config file is used for evaluation. The `workflow` section is not required. If the `workflow` section is provided, it is instantiated but not used. So it is recommended to not provide a `workflow` section in the evaluation configuration file.

### Evaluate Request
- **Route**: `/evaluate`
- **Method**: `POST`
- **Description**: Start evaluation. Evaluates the performance and accuracy of the workflow on a dataset.
- HTTP Request Example:
```bash
curl --request POST \
   --url http://localhost:8000/evaluate \
   --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
   --data '{
    "config_file": "examples/basic/functions/simple/configs/eval_only_config.yml",
    "expiry_seconds": 600
}' | jq
```
You can optionally pipe the output to `jq` for response formatting.

### Evaluate Request Format
`AIQEvaluateRequest`:
- `config_file`: Path to the evaluation configuration file on the remote server.
- `job_id`: Unique identifier for the evaluation job. If not provided, a new job ID is generated.
- `reps`: Number of repetitions for the evaluation. Defaults to 1.
- `expiry_seconds`: Optional time (in seconds) before the job expires. This is clamped between 600 (10 min) and 86400 (24h). Defaults to 3600 seconds (1 hour).

### Evaluate Response
The evaluation request is stored as a background job in the server and the endpoint returns a job ID and status. Sample response:
```json
{
  "job_id": "882317f0-6149-4b29-872b-9c8018d64784",
  "status": "submitted"
}
```

### Evaluate Response Format
`AIQEvaluateResponse`:
- `job_id`: Unique identifier for the evaluation job.
- `status`: Status of the evaluation job. Possible values are:
**Possible `status` values**:
- `submitted` – The job has been submitted and is waiting to be processed.
- `running` – The job is currently being processed.
- `success` – The job has completed successfully.
- `failure` – The job has failed.
- `interrupted` – The job was interrupted before completion.
- `not_found` – The job ID was not found.


## Evaluate Job Status
### Job Status by ID
A submitted job's status can be checked using the job ID. The status endpoint is defined as follows:
- **Route**: `/evaluate/job/{job_id}`
- **Method**: `GET`
- **Description**: Get the status of a submitted evaluation job using the job ID.
- HTTP Request Example:
```bash
curl --request GET \
   --url http://localhost:8000/evaluate/job/882317f0-6149-4b29-872b-9c8018d64784 | jq
```

### Evaluate Job Status Response
The response contains the status of the job, including the job ID, status, and any error messages if applicable. Sample response:
```json
{
  "job_id": "882317f0-6149-4b29-872b-9c8018d64784",
  "status": "success",
  "config_file": "examples/basic/functions/simple/configs/eval_only_config.yml",
  "error": null,
  "output_path": ".tmp/aiq/examples/basic/functions/simple/jobs/882317f0-6149-4b29-872b-9c8018d64784",
  "created_at": "2025-04-11T17:33:38.018904Z",
  "updated_at": "2025-04-11T17:34:40.359080Z",
  "expires_at": "2025-04-11T17:44:40.359080Z"
}
```

### Job Status: Last Submitted Job
The last job status can be checked using the following endpoint:
- **Route**: `/evaluate/job/last`
- **Method**: `GET`
- **Description**: Get the status of the last submitted evaluation job.
- HTTP Request Example:
```bash
curl --request GET \
   --url http://localhost:8000/evaluate/job/last | jq
```

### Status of all jobs
The status of all jobs can be checked using the following endpoint:
- **Route**: `/evaluate/jobs`
- **Method**: `GET`
- **Description**: Get the status of all submitted evaluation jobs.
- HTTP Request Example:
```bash
curl --request GET \
   --url http://localhost:8000/evaluate/jobs | jq
```

#### Sample Response
```bash
[
  {
    "job_id": "df6fddd7-2adf-45dd-a105-8559a7569ec9",
    "status": "success",
    "config_file": "examples/basic/functions/simple/configs/eval_only_config.yml",
    "error": null,
    "output_path": ".tmp/aiq/examples/basic/functions/simple/jobs/df6fddd7-2adf-45dd-a105-8559a7569ec9",
    "created_at": "2025-04-11T17:33:16.711636Z",
    "updated_at": "2025-04-11T17:34:24.753742Z",
    "expires_at": "2025-04-11T17:44:24.753742Z"
  },
  ...
]
```

## Output Storage
A separate output directory is created for each job. The output directory contains the evaluation results, including the evaluation metrics and any generated files. The `jobs/{job-id}` is appended to the `eval.general.output.dir` configuration parameter in the evaluation configuration file to maintain the results of each job. If upload to remote storage is enabled, `jobs/{job-id}` is similarly appended to the `eval.general.output.remote_dir` configuration parameter in the evaluation configuration file.

### Output Directory Cleanup
As the results are maintained per-job, output directory cleanup is recommended. This can be done by enabling `eval.general.output.cleanup` in the evaluation configuration file. If this configuration is enabled, the server removes the entire contents of the output directory at the start of each job. This way only the last job's results are kept in the output directory.

### Job Expiry
You can also configure the expiry timer per-job using the `expiry_seconds` parameter in the `AIQEvaluateRequest`. The server will automatically clean up expired jobs based on this timer. The default expiry value is 3600 seconds (1 hour). The expiration time is clamped between 600 (10 min) and 86400 (24h).

This cleanup includes both the job metadata and the contents of the output directory. The most recently finished job is always preserved, even if expired. Similarly, active jobs, `["submitted", "running"]`, are exempt from cleanup.
