docs/source/workflows/observe/observe-workflow-with-catalyst.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Observing a Workflow with Catalyst

This guide provides a step-by-step process to enable observability in an AIQ toolkit workflow using Catalyst for tracing. By the end of this guide, you will have:
- Configured telemetry in your workflow.
- Able to view traces in the Catalyst platform.

### Step 1: Sign up for Catalyst
- Visit `https://catalyst.raga.ai/signup` to create your account.

### Step 2: Create a Project
After logging in, create a new project.
- Project Name: Choose any name.
- Use Case: `Agentic Application`

### Step3: Generate API Credentials
Go to your [profile](https://catalyst.raga.ai/settings/authenticate) settings to generate your:
- access key
- secret key

### Step4: Configure Your Environment
Set the following environment variables in your terminal
```yaml
export CATALYST_ACCESS_KEY=YOUR_ACCESS_KEY
export CATALYST_SECRET_KEY=YOUR_SECRET_KEY
export base_url=https://catalyst.raga.ai/api
```

### Step 5: Modify Workflow Configuration

Update your workflow configuration file to include the telemetry settings.

Example configuration:
```bash
general:
  telemetry:
    tracing:
      catalyst:
        _type: catalyst
        project: "catalyst-demo"
        dataset: "catalyst-dataset"
```

### Step 6: Run Your Workflow
From the root directory of the AIQ toolkit library, install dependencies and execute your workflow.

**Example:**
```bash
uv pip install -e examples/simple_calculator
```
As the workflow runs, telemetry data will start showing up in Catalyst.

### Step 7: View Traces Data in Catalyst
- Open your browser and navigate to `https://catalyst.raga.ai/projects`.
- Locate your workflow traces under the **your-dataset** section in projects.
- Inspect function execution details, latency, total tokens, request timelines and other info under Info and Attributes tab of an individual trace.

### Debugging
If you encounter issues while downloading the Catalyst package, try uninstalling and installing:
```bash
uv pip uninstall ragaai-catalyst

uv pip install ragaai-catalyst
```

Commit message:

NeMo Agent rename (#422)
Closes

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Agent-Toolkit/blob/develop/docs/source/resources/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - https://github.com/lvojtku
  - franz101 (https://github.com/franz101)
  - https://github.com/sugsharma
  - Eric Evans II (https://github.com/ericevans-nv)
  - Anuradha Karuppiah (https://github.com/AnuradhaKaruppiah)
  - Yuchen Zhang (https://github.com/yczhang-nv)
  - Michael Demoret (https://github.com/mdemoret-nv)

Approvers:
  - David Gardner (https://github.com/dagardner-nv)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Agent-Toolkit/pull/422

docs/source/workflows/observe/observe-workflow-with-catalyst.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Observing a Workflow with Catalyst

This guide provides a step-by-step process to enable observability in a NeMo Agent toolkit workflow using Catalyst for tracing. By the end of this guide, you will have:
- Configured telemetry in your workflow.
- Able to view traces in the Catalyst platform.

### Step 1: Sign up for Catalyst
- Visit `https://catalyst.raga.ai/signup` to create your account.

### Step 2: Create a Project
After logging in, create a new project.
- Project Name: Choose any name.
- Use Case: `Agentic Application`

### Step3: Generate API Credentials
Go to your [profile](https://catalyst.raga.ai/settings/authenticate) settings to generate your:
- access key
- secret key

### Step4: Configure Your Environment
Set the following environment variables in your terminal
```yaml
export CATALYST_ACCESS_KEY=YOUR_ACCESS_KEY
export CATALYST_SECRET_KEY=YOUR_SECRET_KEY
export base_url=https://catalyst.raga.ai/api
```

### Step 5: Modify Workflow Configuration

Update your workflow configuration file to include the telemetry settings.

Example configuration:
```bash
general:
  telemetry:
    tracing:
      catalyst:
        _type: catalyst
        project: "catalyst-demo"
        dataset: "catalyst-dataset"
```

### Step 6: Run Your Workflow
From the root directory of the NeMo Agent toolkit library, install dependencies and execute your workflow.

**Example:**
```bash
uv pip install -e examples/simple_calculator
```
As the workflow runs, telemetry data will start showing up in Catalyst.

### Step 7: View Traces Data in Catalyst
- Open your browser and navigate to `https://catalyst.raga.ai/projects`.
- Locate your workflow traces under the **your-dataset** section in projects.
- Inspect function execution details, latency, total tokens, request timelines and other info under Info and Attributes tab of an individual trace.

### Debugging
If you encounter issues while downloading the Catalyst package, try uninstalling and installing:
```bash
uv pip uninstall ragaai-catalyst

uv pip install ragaai-catalyst
```
