examples/profiler_agent/README.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# AIQ Profiler Agent

You can talk to the traces generated by AIQ toolkit workflows using this profiler agent example.


## Installation and Setup

If you have not already done so, follow the instructions in the [Install Guide](../../docs/source/quick-start/installing.md) to create the development environment and install AIQ toolkit.

### Install this Workflow:

From the root directory of the AIQ toolkit library, run the following commands:

```bash
uv pip install -e examples/profiler_agent
```

### Set Up API Keys
If you have not already done so, follow the [Obtaining API Keys](../../docs/source/quick-start/installing.md#obtaining-api-keys) instructions to obtain an NVIDIA API key. You need to set your NVIDIA API key as an environment variable to access NVIDIA AI services:

```bash
export NVIDIA_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
```

## Usage

1. Start the Phoenix server if not already running. If you are using a remote Phoenix server, you can skip this step and modify the config/config.yml to point to the URL.
```
docker run -p 6006:6006 -p 4317:4317 -i -t arizephoenix/phoenix:latest
```

2. Ensure that there are traces in the Phoenix server. You can use the simple calculator example to generate traces.
```
aiq run --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config-tracing.yml --input "Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?"
aiq run --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config-tracing.yml --input "Is the product of 33 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?"
aiq run --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config-tracing.yml --input "Is the sum of 44 and 55 greater than the current hour of the day?"
aiq run --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config-tracing.yml --input "Is the difference between 7 and 5 less than the current hour of the day?"
```

3. Run the profiler agent:
   ```
   aiq serve --config_file=examples/profiler_agent/configs/config.yml
   ```

4. Launch the AIQ toolkit User Interface by using the instructions in the [Launching the API Server and User Interface](../../docs/source/quick-start/launching-ui.md) guide.

5. Query the agent with natural language via the UI:
```
"Show me the token usage of last run"
```

![Sample Response](../../docs/source/_static/profiler-agent.png "Sample Response UI Image")

More examples:
   ```
   "Show me flowchart of last 3 runs"
   "Analyze the last 2 runs"
   ```

## Features

- Query Phoenix traces with natural language
- Analyze LLM application performance metrics
- Generate trace visualizations
- Extract user queries across trace spans

Commit message:

Fix missing tool issue with `profiler_agent` example (#279)
* Ensures that tools are being registered
* Ensure that the missing `simple_calculator` and `telemetry` deps are installed.
* Misc documentation cleanups
 
## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/blob/develop/docs/source/resources/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - David Gardner (https://github.com/dagardner-nv)

Approvers:
  - Anuradha Karuppiah (https://github.com/AnuradhaKaruppiah)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/pull/279

examples/profiler_agent/README.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# AIQ Profiler Agent

The profiler agent is a tool that allows you to analyze the performance of AIQ toolkit workflows. It uses the Phoenix server to store and retrieve traces of workflow runs.

## Installation and Setup

If you have not already done so, follow the instructions in the [Install Guide](../../docs/source/quick-start/installing.md) to create the development environment and install AIQ toolkit.

### Install this Workflow:

From the root directory of the AIQ toolkit library, run the following commands:

```bash
uv pip install -e examples/profiler_agent
```

### Set Up API Keys
If you have not already done so, follow the [Obtaining API Keys](../../docs/source/quick-start/installing.md#obtaining-api-keys) instructions to obtain an NVIDIA API key. You need to set your NVIDIA API key as an environment variable to access NVIDIA AI services:

```bash
export NVIDIA_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
```

## Usage

1. Start the Phoenix server if not already running. If you are using a remote Phoenix server, you can skip this step and modify the config/config.yml to point to the URL.
   ```bash
   docker run -p 6006:6006 -p 4317:4317 -i -t arizephoenix/phoenix:latest
   ```

2. Ensure that there are traces in the Phoenix server. You can use the simple calculator example to generate traces.
   > Note: This requires installing both the optional `telemetry` dependencies along with the simple calculator. You can do this by running the following commands:
   > ```bash
   > uv pip install -e '.[telemetry]'
   > uv pip install -e examples/simple_calculator
   > ```

   Then, run the simple calculator example to generate traces:
   ```bash
   aiq run --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config-tracing.yml --input "Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?"
   aiq run --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config-tracing.yml --input "Is the product of 33 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?"
   aiq run --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config-tracing.yml --input "Is the sum of 44 and 55 greater than the current hour of the day?"
   aiq run --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config-tracing.yml --input "Is the difference between 7 and 5 less than the current hour of the day?"
   ```

3. Run the profiler agent:
   ```
   aiq serve --config_file=examples/profiler_agent/configs/config.yml
   ```

4. Launch the AIQ toolkit User Interface by using the instructions in the [Launching the User Interface](../../docs/source/quick-start/launching-ui.md#launch-the-aiq-toolkit-user-interface) guide.

5. Query the agent with natural language via the UI:
   ```
   Show me the token usage of last run
   ```

   ![Sample Response](../../docs/source/_static/profiler-agent.png "Sample Response UI Image")

   More examples:
   ```
   Show me flowchart of last 3 runs
   ```

   ```
   Analyze the last 2 runs
   ```

## Features

- Query Phoenix traces with natural language
- Analyze LLM application performance metrics
- Generate trace visualizations
- Extract user queries across trace spans
