examples/MCP/simple_calculator_mcp/deploy_external_mcp/README.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# MCP Server Example

This example demonstrates how to set up and run an MCP (Model Control Protocol) server using a reusable `Dockerfile`.

## Prerequisites

- Docker
- Docker Compose

## Available MCP Services

This example uses the `mcp-server-time` service. For a list of available public MCP services, please refer to the [MCP Server GitHub repository](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers).

## Setup

1. Change the service name and brief name to the service you want to use. Additionally specify any optional service arguments.

```bash
# This should be the name of the MCP service you want to use.
export SERVICE_NAME=mcp-server-time
# This can be any name you want to give to your service.
export SERVICE_BRIEF_NAME=time
# Any arguments to pass to the service. Example: `mcp-server-time` requires --local-timezone if the container's timezone hasn't been configured.
export SERVICE_ARGS=--"local-timezone \"America/New_York\""

```

2. Set the service directory, server port, and container name.

```bash
export SERVICE_DIR=./.tmp/mcp/${SERVICE_BRIEF_NAME}_service
export CONTAINER_NAME=mcp-proxy-aiq-${SERVICE_BRIEF_NAME}
export SERVER_PORT=8080
```

3. Create a directory for your service and copy the `Dockerfile` to it:

```bash
mkdir -p ${SERVICE_DIR}
cp examples/MCP/simple_calculator_mcp/deploy_external_mcp/Dockerfile ${SERVICE_DIR}/
```

4. Create the run script:

```bash
cat > ${SERVICE_DIR}/run_service.sh <<EOF
#!/bin/bash
uvx ${SERVICE_NAME} ${SERVICE_ARGS}
EOF

chmod +x ${SERVICE_DIR}/run_service.sh
```

5. Create a `docker-compose.yml` file:

```bash
cat > ${SERVICE_DIR}/docker-compose.yml <<EOF
services:
  ${SERVICE_BRIEF_NAME}_server:
    container_name: ${CONTAINER_NAME}
    build:
      context: .
      dockerfile: Dockerfile
    ports:
      - "${SERVER_PORT}:${SERVER_PORT}"
    volumes:
      - ./run_service.sh:/scripts/run_service.sh
    command:
      - "--sse-port=${SERVER_PORT}"
      - "--sse-host=0.0.0.0"
      - "/scripts/run_service.sh"
EOF
```

6. Build and run the MCP server:

```bash
docker compose -f ${SERVICE_DIR}/docker-compose.yml up -d
```

7. Verify the MCP server is running and monitor the service:

```bash
docker ps
docker logs -f ${CONTAINER_NAME}
```

## Usage

The MCP server will be available at `http://localhost:${SERVER_PORT}/sse`. You can use it with any MCP-compatible client.

## Client Configuration

To use the MCP service in your AIQ toolkit application, configure the MCP tool wrapper in your config file:

```yaml
functions:
  ${SERVICE_BRIEF_NAME}_tool:
    _type: mcp_tool_wrapper
    url: "http://0.0.0.0:${SERVER_PORT}/sse"
    mcp_tool_name: get_current_time
    description: "Returns the current date and time from the MCP server"
```

Replace `get_current_time` with the actual tool name exposed by your service.

Commit message:

Unify examples README structure (#485)
* Ensure README structures are aligned for all examples -- including installation and prerequisites
* Add Table of Contents to examples
* Replace instances of AIQ toolkit with NeMo Agent toolkit

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Agent-Toolkit/blob/develop/docs/source/resources/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - Will Killian (https://github.com/willkill07)

Approvers:
  - Michael Demoret (https://github.com/mdemoret-nv)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Agent-Toolkit/pull/485

examples/MCP/simple_calculator_mcp/deploy_external_mcp/README.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# MCP Server Example

This example demonstrates how to set up and run an MCP (Model Control Protocol) server using a reusable `Dockerfile`.

## Table of Contents

- [Key Features](#key-features)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Available MCP Services](#available-mcp-services)
- [Installation and Setup](#installation-and-setup)
- [Run the Workflow](#run-the-workflow)
- [Client Configuration](#client-configuration)

## Key Features

- **Reusable Docker MCP Server:** Demonstrates how to deploy any MCP server using a standardized Docker container approach with configurable service parameters and arguments.
- **MCP Service Integration:** Shows integration with public MCP services including `mcp-server-time` and other available services from the Model Context Protocol ecosystem.
- **Dynamic Service Configuration:** Provides flexible configuration through environment variables for service names, arguments, ports, and container settings.
- **Docker Compose Orchestration:** Includes complete Docker Compose setup for easy deployment and management of MCP services with proper networking and volume configurations.
- **Production-Ready Deployment:** Offers patterns for deploying MCP servers in production environments with proper containerization and service management.

## Prerequisites

- Docker
- Docker Compose

## Available MCP Services

This example uses the `mcp-server-time` service. For a list of available public MCP services, please refer to the [MCP Server GitHub repository](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers).

## Installation and Setup

If you have not already done so, follow the instructions in the [Install Guide](../../../../docs/source/quick-start/installing.md#install-from-source) to create the development environment and install NeMo Agent toolkit.

1. Change the service name and brief name to the service you want to use. Additionally specify any optional service arguments.

```bash
# This should be the name of the MCP service you want to use.
export SERVICE_NAME=mcp-server-time
# This can be any name you want to give to your service.
export SERVICE_BRIEF_NAME=time
# Any arguments to pass to the service. Example: `mcp-server-time` requires --local-timezone if the container's timezone hasn't been configured.
export SERVICE_ARGS=--"local-timezone \"America/New_York\""
```

2. Set the service directory, server port, and container name.

```bash
export SERVICE_DIR=./.tmp/mcp/${SERVICE_BRIEF_NAME}_service
export CONTAINER_NAME=mcp-proxy-aiq-${SERVICE_BRIEF_NAME}
export SERVER_PORT=8080
```

3. Create a directory for your service and copy the `Dockerfile` to it:

```bash
mkdir -p ${SERVICE_DIR}
cp examples/MCP/simple_calculator_mcp/deploy_external_mcp/Dockerfile ${SERVICE_DIR}/
```

4. Create the run script:

```bash
cat > ${SERVICE_DIR}/run_service.sh <<EOF
#!/bin/bash
uvx ${SERVICE_NAME} ${SERVICE_ARGS}
EOF

chmod +x ${SERVICE_DIR}/run_service.sh
```

5. Create a `docker-compose.yml` file:

```bash
cat > ${SERVICE_DIR}/docker-compose.yml <<EOF
services:
  ${SERVICE_BRIEF_NAME}_server:
    container_name: ${CONTAINER_NAME}
    build:
      context: .
      dockerfile: Dockerfile
    ports:
      - "${SERVER_PORT}:${SERVER_PORT}"
    volumes:
      - ./run_service.sh:/scripts/run_service.sh
    command:
      - "--sse-port=${SERVER_PORT}"
      - "--sse-host=0.0.0.0"
      - "/scripts/run_service.sh"
EOF
```

6. Build and run the MCP server:

```bash
docker compose -f ${SERVICE_DIR}/docker-compose.yml up -d
```

7. Verify the MCP server is running and monitor the service:

```bash
docker ps
docker logs -f ${CONTAINER_NAME}
```

## Run the Workflow

The MCP server will be available at `http://localhost:${SERVER_PORT}/sse`. You can use it with any MCP-compatible client.

## Client Configuration

To use the MCP service in your NeMo Agent toolkit application, configure the MCP tool wrapper in your config file:

```yaml
functions:
  ${SERVICE_BRIEF_NAME}_tool:
    _type: mcp_tool_wrapper
    url: "http://0.0.0.0:${SERVER_PORT}/sse"
    mcp_tool_name: get_current_time
    description: "Returns the current date and time from the MCP server"
```

Replace `get_current_time` with the actual tool name exposed by your service.
