src/aiq/meta/pypi.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2024-2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

![NVIDIA Agent Intelligence Toolkit](https://media.githubusercontent.com/media/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/refs/heads/main/docs/source/_static/aiqtoolkit_banner.png "AIQ Toolkit banner image")

# NVIDIA Agent Intelligence Toolkit

AIQ Toolkit is a flexible library designed to seamlessly integrate your enterprise agents—regardless of framework—with various data sources and tools. By treating agents, tools, and agentic workflows as simple function calls, AIQ Toolkit enables true composability: build once and reuse anywhere.

## Key Features

- [**Framework Agnostic:**](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/concepts/plugins.html) Works with any agentic framework, so you can use your current technology stack without replatforming.
- [**Reusability:**](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/guides/sharing-workflows-and-tools.html) Every agent, tool, or workflow can be combined and repurposed, allowing developers to leverage existing work in new scenarios.
- [**Rapid Development:**](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/guides/create-customize-workflows.html) Start with a pre-built agent, tool, or workflow, and customize it to your needs.
- [**Profiling:**](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/guides/profiler.html) Profile entire workflows down to the tool and agent level, track input/output tokens and timings, and identify bottlenecks.
- [**Observability:**](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/guides/observe-workflow-with-phoenix.html) Monitor and debug your workflows with any OpenTelemetry-compatible observability tool.
- [**Evaluation System:**](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/guides/evaluate.html) Validate and maintain accuracy of agentic workflows with built-in evaluation tools.
- [**User Interface:**](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/guides/using-aiqtoolkit-ui-and-server.html) Use the AIQ Toolkit UI chat interface to interact with your agents, visualize output, and debug workflows.
- [**MCP Compatibility**](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/components/mcp.html) Compatible with Model Context Protocol (MCP), allowing tools served by MCP Servers to be used as AIQ Toolkit functions.

With AIQ Toolkit, you can move quickly, experiment freely, and ensure reliability across all your agent-driven projects.

## Links
 * [Documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/index.html): Explore the full documentation for AIQ Toolkit.
 * [About AIQ Toolkit](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/intro/why-aiqtoolkit.html): Learn more about the benefits of using AIQ Toolkit.

## First time user?
 If this is your first time using AIQ Toolkit, it is recommended to install the latest version from the [source repository](https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit?tab=readme-ov-file#get-started) on GitHub. This package is intended for users who are familiar with AIQ Toolkit applications and need to add AIQ Toolkit as a dependency to their project.

## Feedback

We would love to hear from you! Please file an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/issues) if you have any feedback or feature requests.

## Acknowledgements

We would like to thank the following open source projects that made AIQ Toolkit possible:

- [CrewAI](https://github.com/crewAIInc/crewAI)
- [FastAPI](https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi)
- [LangChain](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain)
- [Llama-Index](https://github.com/run-llama/llama_index)
- [Mem0ai](https://github.com/mem0ai/mem0)
- [Ragas](https://github.com/explodinggradients/ragas)
- [Semantic Kernel](https://github.com/microsoft/semantic-kernel)
- [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv)

Commit message:

Make `opentelemetry` and `phoenix` as optional dependencies (#167)
This PR makes `opentelemetry` and `phoenix` as optional dependencies for Omniverse integration.

- Moved the telemetry dependencies from AIQ core dependency to a separate group of optional dependency, which can be installed by `uv pip install -e '.[telemetry]'`.
- Created `src/aiq/utils/optional_imports.py` to include optional import functionalities and dummy implementations. This module can be reused if we want to add more optional dependencies in the future.
- When the configuration file contains `tracing` section but the telemetry dependencies are not installed, `TelemetryOptionalImportError` will be raised
- Updated files that imports the optional dependencies to gracefully handle the case when those dependencies are not installed
- Updated logging and documentation

Closes [AIQ-1064](https://jirasw.nvidia.com/browse/AIQ-1064)

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/blob/develop/docs/source/advanced/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - Yuchen Zhang (https://github.com/yczhang-nv)

Approvers:
  - Michael Demoret (https://github.com/mdemoret-nv)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/pull/167

src/aiq/meta/pypi.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2024-2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

![NVIDIA Agent Intelligence Toolkit](https://media.githubusercontent.com/media/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/refs/heads/main/docs/source/_static/aiqtoolkit_banner.png "AIQ Toolkit banner image")

# NVIDIA Agent Intelligence Toolkit

AIQ Toolkit is a flexible library designed to seamlessly integrate your enterprise agents—regardless of framework—with various data sources and tools. By treating agents, tools, and agentic workflows as simple function calls, AIQ Toolkit enables true composability: build once and reuse anywhere.

## Key Features

- [**Framework Agnostic:**](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/concepts/plugins.html) Works with any agentic framework, so you can use your current technology stack without replatforming.
- [**Reusability:**](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/guides/sharing-workflows-and-tools.html) Every agent, tool, or workflow can be combined and repurposed, allowing developers to leverage existing work in new scenarios.
- [**Rapid Development:**](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/guides/create-customize-workflows.html) Start with a pre-built agent, tool, or workflow, and customize it to your needs.
- [**Profiling:**](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/guides/profiler.html) Profile entire workflows down to the tool and agent level, track input/output tokens and timings, and identify bottlenecks.
- [**Observability:**](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/guides/observe-workflow-with-phoenix.html) Monitor and debug your workflows with any OpenTelemetry-compatible observability tool. (OpenTelemetry and Phoenix integration are optional and can be installed separately if needed.)
- [**Evaluation System:**](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/guides/evaluate.html) Validate and maintain accuracy of agentic workflows with built-in evaluation tools.
- [**User Interface:**](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/guides/using-aiqtoolkit-ui-and-server.html) Use the AIQ Toolkit UI chat interface to interact with your agents, visualize output, and debug workflows.
- [**MCP Compatibility**](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/components/mcp.html) Compatible with Model Context Protocol (MCP), allowing tools served by MCP Servers to be used as AIQ Toolkit functions.

With AIQ Toolkit, you can move quickly, experiment freely, and ensure reliability across all your agent-driven projects.

## Links
 * [Documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/index.html): Explore the full documentation for AIQ Toolkit.
 * [About AIQ Toolkit](https://docs.nvidia.com/aiqtoolkit/latest/intro/why-aiqtoolkit.html): Learn more about the benefits of using AIQ Toolkit.

## First time user?
 If this is your first time using AIQ Toolkit, it is recommended to install the latest version from the [source repository](https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit?tab=readme-ov-file#get-started) on GitHub. This package is intended for users who are familiar with AIQ Toolkit applications and need to add AIQ Toolkit as a dependency to their project.

## Feedback

We would love to hear from you! Please file an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/issues) if you have any feedback or feature requests.

## Acknowledgements

We would like to thank the following open source projects that made AIQ Toolkit possible:

- [CrewAI](https://github.com/crewAIInc/crewAI)
- [FastAPI](https://github.com/tiangolo/fastapi)
- [LangChain](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain)
- [Llama-Index](https://github.com/run-llama/llama_index)
- [Mem0ai](https://github.com/mem0ai/mem0)
- [Ragas](https://github.com/explodinggradients/ragas)
- [Semantic Kernel](https://github.com/microsoft/semantic-kernel)
- [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv)
