docs/source/extend/adding-a-retriever.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Adding a Retriever Provider
New retrievers can be added to AIQ toolkit by creating a plugin. The general process is the same as for most plugins, but the retriever-specific steps are outlined here.

First, create a retriever for the provider that implements the Retriever interface:
```python
class AIQRetriever(ABC):
    """
    Abstract interface for interacting with data stores.

    A Retriever is resposible for retrieving data from a configured data store.

    Implemntations may integrate with vector stores or other indexing backends that allow for text-based search.
    """

    @abstractmethod
    async def search(self, query: str, **kwargs) -> RetrieverOutput:
        """
        Retireve max(top_k) items from the data store based on vector similarity search (implementation dependent).

        """
        raise NotImplementedError
```

Next, create the config for the provider and register it with AIQ toolkit:

```python
class ExampleRetrieverConfig(RetrieverBaseConfig, name="example_retriever"):
    """
    Configuration for a Retriever provider. The parameters will depend on the particular provider. These are examples.
    """
    uri: HttpUrl = Field(description="The uri of the Nemo Retriever service.")
    collection_name: str = Field(description="The name of the collection to search")
    top_k: int = Field(description="The number of results to return", gt=0, le=50, default=5)
    output_fields: list[str] | None = Field(
        default=None,
        description="A list of fields to return from the datastore. If 'None', all fields but the vector are returned.")


@register_retriever_provider(config_type=ExampleRetrieverConfig)
async def example_retriever(retriever_config: ExampleRetrieverConfig, builder: Builder):
    yield RetrieverProviderInfo(config=retriever_config,
                                description="AIQ retriever provider for...")
```
Lastly, implement and register the retriever client:

```python
@register_retriever_client(config_type=ExampleRetrieverConfig, wrapper_type=None)
async def nemo_retriever_client(config: ExampleRetrieverConfig, builder: Builder):
    from example_plugin.retriever import ExampleRetriever

    retriever = ExampleRetriever(**config.model_dump())

    yield retriever
```

You can then implement and register framework-specific clients for the retriever provider, or use the config to instantiate an existing framework implementation.

Commit message:

NeMo Agent rename (#422)
Closes

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Agent-Toolkit/blob/develop/docs/source/resources/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - https://github.com/lvojtku
  - franz101 (https://github.com/franz101)
  - https://github.com/sugsharma
  - Eric Evans II (https://github.com/ericevans-nv)
  - Anuradha Karuppiah (https://github.com/AnuradhaKaruppiah)
  - Yuchen Zhang (https://github.com/yczhang-nv)
  - Michael Demoret (https://github.com/mdemoret-nv)

Approvers:
  - David Gardner (https://github.com/dagardner-nv)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Agent-Toolkit/pull/422

docs/source/extend/adding-a-retriever.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Adding a Retriever Provider
New retrievers can be added to NeMo Agent toolkit by creating a plugin. The general process is the same as for most plugins, but the retriever-specific steps are outlined here.

First, create a retriever for the provider that implements the Retriever interface:
```python
class AIQRetriever(ABC):
    """
    Abstract interface for interacting with data stores.

    A Retriever is resposible for retrieving data from a configured data store.

    Implemntations may integrate with vector stores or other indexing backends that allow for text-based search.
    """

    @abstractmethod
    async def search(self, query: str, **kwargs) -> RetrieverOutput:
        """
        Retireve max(top_k) items from the data store based on vector similarity search (implementation dependent).

        """
        raise NotImplementedError
```

Next, create the config for the provider and register it with NeMo Agent toolkit:

```python
class ExampleRetrieverConfig(RetrieverBaseConfig, name="example_retriever"):
    """
    Configuration for a Retriever provider. The parameters will depend on the particular provider. These are examples.
    """
    uri: HttpUrl = Field(description="The uri of the Nemo Retriever service.")
    collection_name: str = Field(description="The name of the collection to search")
    top_k: int = Field(description="The number of results to return", gt=0, le=50, default=5)
    output_fields: list[str] | None = Field(
        default=None,
        description="A list of fields to return from the datastore. If 'None', all fields but the vector are returned.")


@register_retriever_provider(config_type=ExampleRetrieverConfig)
async def example_retriever(retriever_config: ExampleRetrieverConfig, builder: Builder):
    yield RetrieverProviderInfo(config=retriever_config,
                                description="AIQ retriever provider for...")
```
Lastly, implement and register the retriever client:

```python
@register_retriever_client(config_type=ExampleRetrieverConfig, wrapper_type=None)
async def nemo_retriever_client(config: ExampleRetrieverConfig, builder: Builder):
    from example_plugin.retriever import ExampleRetriever

    retriever = ExampleRetriever(**config.model_dump())

    yield retriever
```

You can then implement and register framework-specific clients for the retriever provider, or use the config to instantiate an existing framework implementation.
