examples/simple_calculator/README.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# A Simple LLM Calculator

This example demonstrates an end-to-end (E2E) agentic workflow using the AIQ Toolkit library, fully configured through a YAML file. It showcases the AIQ Toolkit plugin system and `Builder` to seamlessly integrate pre-built and custom tools into workflows.

## Table of Contents

- [A Simple LLM Calculator](#a-simple-llm-calculator)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Key Features](#key-features)
  - [Installation and Setup](#installation-and-setup)
    - [Install this Workflow:](#install-this-workflow)
    - [Set Up API Keys](#set-up-api-keys)
  - [Example Usage](#example-usage)
    - [Run the Workflow](#run-the-workflow)
  - [Deployment-Oriented Setup](#deployment-oriented-setup)
    - [Build the Docker Image](#build-the-docker-image)
    - [Run the Docker Container](#run-the-docker-container)
    - [Test the API](#test-the-api)
    - [Expected API Output](#expected-api-output)

---

## Key Features

- **Pre-built Tools:** Leverages core AIQ Toolkit library tools.
- **Custom Plugin System:** Developers can bring in new tools using plugins.
- **High-level API:** Enables defining functions that transform into asynchronous LangChain tools.
- **Agentic Workflows:** Fully configurable via YAML for flexibility and productivity.
- **Ease of Use:** Simplifies developer experience and deployment.

---

## Installation and Setup

If you have not already done so, follow the instructions in the [Install Guide](../../docs/source/intro/install.md) to create the development environment and install AIQ Toolkit.

### Install this Workflow:

From the root directory of the AIQ Toolkit library, run the following commands:

```bash
uv pip install -e examples/simple_calculator
```

### Set Up API Keys
If you have not already done so, follow the [Obtaining API Keys](../../docs/source/intro/get-started.md#obtaining-api-keys) instructions to obtain an NVIDIA API key. You need to set your NVIDIA API key as an environment variable to access NVIDIA AI services:

```bash
export NVIDIA_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
```

## Example Usage

This example makes use of [Arize Phoenix](https://docs.arize.com/phoenix) to visualize the traces generated by the workflow.

### Run Phoenix

Open a new terminal, source the virtual environment and run `phoenix serve` to capture traces.

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
phoenix serve
```

### Run the Workflow

Return to your original terminal, and run the following command from the root of the AIQ Toolkit repo to execute this workflow with the specified input:

```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config-tracing.yml --input "Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?"
```

**Expected Output**
The workflow output can be quite lengthy, the end of the workflow output should contain something similar to the following (the final answer will depend on the time of day the workflow is run):
```console
$ aiq run --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config.yml --input "Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?"
2025-04-23 15:58:34,877 - aiq.runtime.loader - WARNING - Loading module 'aiq_automated_description_generation.register' from entry point 'aiq_automated_description_generation' took a long time (440.151215 ms). Ensure all imports are inside your registered functions.
2025-04-23 15:58:35,193 - aiq.cli.commands.start - INFO - Starting AIQ Toolkit from config file: 'examples/simple_calculator/configs/config.yml'
2025-04-23 15:58:35,199 - aiq.cli.commands.start - WARNING - The front end type in the config file (fastapi) does not match the command name (console). Overwriting the config file front end.

Configuration Summary:
--------------------
Workflow Type: react_agent
Number of Functions: 5
Number of LLMs: 2
Number of Embedders: 0
Number of Memory: 0
Number of Retrievers: 0

2025-04-23 15:58:36,674 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO -
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Agent input: Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?
Agent's thoughts:
Thought: To answer this question, I need to calculate the product of 2 and 4, and then compare it to the current hour of the day.

Action: calculator_multiply
Action Input: {'text': '2 * 4'}


------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:58:36,682 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO -
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Calling tools: calculator_multiply
Tool's input: {"text": "2 * 4"}
Tool's response:
The product of 2 * 4 is 8
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:58:37,704 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO -
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Agent input: Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?
Agent's thoughts:
Thought: Now that I have the product of 2 and 4, I need to get the current hour of the day to compare it with the product.

Action: current_datetime
Action Input: None
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:58:37,710 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO -
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Calling tools: current_datetime
Tool's input: None
Tool's response:
The current time of day is 2025-04-23 15:58:37
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:58:38,865 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO -
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Agent input: Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?
Agent's thoughts:
Thought: Now that I have the current time of day, I can extract the hour and compare it with the product of 2 and 4.

Action: calculator_inequality
Action Input: {'text': '8 > 15'}
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:58:38,871 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO -
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Calling tools: calculator_inequality
Tool's input: {"text": "8 > 15"}
Tool's response:
First number 8 is less than the second number 15
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:58:39,978 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO -
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Agent input: Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?
Agent's thoughts:
Thought: I now know the final answer

Final Answer: No, the product of 2 * 4 (which is 8) is less than the current hour of the day (which is 15).
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:58:39,981 - aiq.front_ends.console.console_front_end_plugin - INFO -
--------------------------------------------------
Workflow Result:
['No, the product of 2 * 4 (which is 8) is less than the current hour of the day (which is 15).']
```

### Examine the Traces in Phoenix
Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:6006` to view the traces.

## Accuracy Evaluation
The answers generated by the workflow can be evaluated using the [Tunable RAG Evaluator](../../docs/source/concepts/evaluate.md#tunable-rag-evaluator). A sample dataset is provided in `examples/simple_calculator/data/simple_calculator.json`.

To run the evaluation, use the `aiq eval` command:

```bash
aiq eval --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config-tunable-rag-eval.yml
```

The evaluation results will be saved in `examples/simple_calculator/.tmp/eval/simple_calculator/tuneable_eval_output.json`.

## Deployment-Oriented Setup

For a production deployment, use Docker:

### Build the Docker Image

Prior to building the Docker image ensure that you have followed the steps in the [Installation and Setup](#installation-and-setup) section, and you are currently in the AIQ Toolkit virtual environment.

From the root directory of the Simple Calculator repository, build the Docker image:

```bash
docker build --build-arg AIQ_VERSION=$(python -m setuptools_scm) -t simple_calculator -f examples/simple_calculator/Dockerfile .
```

### Run the Docker Container
Deploy the container:

```bash
docker run -p 8000:8000 -p 6006:6006 -e NVIDIA_API_KEY simple_calculator
```

Note, a phoenix telemetry service will be exposed at port 6006.

### Test the API
Use the following curl command to test the deployed API:

```bash
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:8000/generate' \
  -H 'accept: application/json' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{"input_message": "Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?"}'
  ```

  ### Expected API Output
  The API response should be similar to the following:

```bash
{
  "input": "Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?",
  "output": "No, the product of 2 * 4 (which is 8) is less than the current hour of the day (which is 16)."
}
```

## Using MCP Services for running the workflow

The `config-mcp-client.yml` file demonstrates how to use an MCP service as a tool in the AIQ Toolkit `simple_calculator` workflow.

### MCP Server Setup

Follow the instructions in the [MCP Server README](../mcp_server/README.md) to setup the MCP server. Use the `mcp-server-time` service for this example.

### Running the workflow with MCP service

The `config-mcp-client.yml` file demonstrates how to use an MCP service as a tool in the AIQ Toolkit `simple_calculator` workflow.

```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config-mcp-client.yml --input "Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?"
```

**Expected Output**
You should see the workflow using the MCP service as a tool to get the current hour of the day. The output has been truncated for brevity.
```console
The agent's thoughts are:
Thought: Now that I have the product of 2 and 4, I need to get the current hour of the day to compare it with the product.

Action: mcp_time_tool
Action Input: {'timezone': 'UTC'}
2025-04-14 14:46:58,875 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO - Calling tool mcp_time_tool with input: {'timezone': 'UTC'}
2025-04-14 14:46:58,875 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO - Successfully parsed structured tool input from Action Input
2025-04-14 14:46:58,879 - mcp.client.sse - INFO - Connecting to SSE endpoint: http://0.0.0.0:8080/sse
2025-04-14 14:46:58,930 - httpx - INFO - HTTP Request: GET http://0.0.0.0:8080/sse "HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
2025-04-14 14:46:58,930 - mcp.client.sse - INFO - Received endpoint URL: http://0.0.0.0:8080/messages/?session_id=18f6ee191b6e488eb897c3ee9cab08ea
2025-04-14 14:46:58,930 - mcp.client.sse - INFO - Starting post writer with endpoint URL: http://0.0.0.0:8080/messages/?session_id=18f6ee191b6e488eb897c3ee9cab08ea
2025-04-14 14:46:58,935 - httpx - INFO - HTTP Request: POST http://0.0.0.0:8080/messages/?session_id=18f6ee191b6e488eb897c3ee9cab08ea "HTTP/1.1 202 Accepted"
2025-04-14 14:46:58,939 - httpx - INFO - HTTP Request: POST http://0.0.0.0:8080/messages/?session_id=18f6ee191b6e488eb897c3ee9cab08ea "HTTP/1.1 202 Accepted"
2025-04-14 14:46:58,943 - httpx - INFO - HTTP Request: POST http://0.0.0.0:8080/messages/?session_id=18f6ee191b6e488eb897c3ee9cab08ea "HTTP/1.1 202 Accepted"
2025-04-14 14:46:58,954 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO - Querying agent, attempt: 1
2025-04-14 14:46:59,981 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO -

>SNIP<

Thought: I now know the final answer

Final Answer: No, the product of 2 * 4 (which is 8) is less than the current hour of the day (which is 21).
2025-04-14 14:47:00,941 - aiq.observability.async_otel_listener - INFO - Intermediate step stream completed. No more events will arrive.
2025-04-14 14:47:00,941 - aiq.front_ends.console.console_front_end_plugin - INFO - --------------------------------------------------
Workflow Result:
['No, the product of 2 * 4 (which is 8) is less than the current hour of the day (which is 21).']
--------------------------------------------------
```

Commit message:

Fix a typo in the weave README (#195)
Closes

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/blob/develop/docs/source/advanced/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - Anuradha Karuppiah (https://github.com/AnuradhaKaruppiah)

Approvers:
  - Eric Evans II (https://github.com/ericevans-nv)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/pull/195

examples/simple_calculator/README.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# A Simple LLM Calculator

This example demonstrates an end-to-end (E2E) agentic workflow using the AIQ Toolkit library, fully configured through a YAML file. It showcases the AIQ Toolkit plugin system and `Builder` to seamlessly integrate pre-built and custom tools into workflows.

## Table of Contents

- [A Simple LLM Calculator](#a-simple-llm-calculator)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Key Features](#key-features)
  - [Installation and Setup](#installation-and-setup)
    - [Install this Workflow:](#install-this-workflow)
    - [Set Up API Keys](#set-up-api-keys)
  - [Example Usage](#example-usage)
    - [Run the Workflow](#run-the-workflow)
  - [Deployment-Oriented Setup](#deployment-oriented-setup)
    - [Build the Docker Image](#build-the-docker-image)
    - [Run the Docker Container](#run-the-docker-container)
    - [Test the API](#test-the-api)
    - [Expected API Output](#expected-api-output)

---

## Key Features

- **Pre-built Tools:** Leverages core AIQ Toolkit library tools.
- **Custom Plugin System:** Developers can bring in new tools using plugins.
- **High-level API:** Enables defining functions that transform into asynchronous LangChain tools.
- **Agentic Workflows:** Fully configurable via YAML for flexibility and productivity.
- **Ease of Use:** Simplifies developer experience and deployment.

---

## Installation and Setup

If you have not already done so, follow the instructions in the [Install Guide](../../docs/source/intro/install.md) to create the development environment and install AIQ Toolkit.

### Install this Workflow:

From the root directory of the AIQ Toolkit library, run the following commands:

```bash
uv pip install -e examples/simple_calculator
```

### Set Up API Keys
If you have not already done so, follow the [Obtaining API Keys](../../docs/source/intro/get-started.md#obtaining-api-keys) instructions to obtain an NVIDIA API key. You need to set your NVIDIA API key as an environment variable to access NVIDIA AI services:

```bash
export NVIDIA_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
```

## Example Usage

This example makes use of [Arize Phoenix](https://docs.arize.com/phoenix) to visualize the traces generated by the workflow.

### Run Phoenix

Open a new terminal, source the virtual environment and run `phoenix serve` to capture traces.

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
phoenix serve
```

### Run the Workflow

Return to your original terminal, and run the following command from the root of the AIQ Toolkit repo to execute this workflow with the specified input:

```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config-tracing.yml --input "Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?"
```

**Expected Output**
The workflow output can be quite lengthy, the end of the workflow output should contain something similar to the following (the final answer will depend on the time of day the workflow is run):
```console
$ aiq run --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config.yml --input "Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?"
2025-04-23 15:58:34,877 - aiq.runtime.loader - WARNING - Loading module 'aiq_automated_description_generation.register' from entry point 'aiq_automated_description_generation' took a long time (440.151215 ms). Ensure all imports are inside your registered functions.
2025-04-23 15:58:35,193 - aiq.cli.commands.start - INFO - Starting AIQ Toolkit from config file: 'examples/simple_calculator/configs/config.yml'
2025-04-23 15:58:35,199 - aiq.cli.commands.start - WARNING - The front end type in the config file (fastapi) does not match the command name (console). Overwriting the config file front end.

Configuration Summary:
--------------------
Workflow Type: react_agent
Number of Functions: 5
Number of LLMs: 2
Number of Embedders: 0
Number of Memory: 0
Number of Retrievers: 0

2025-04-23 15:58:36,674 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO -
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Agent input: Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?
Agent's thoughts:
Thought: To answer this question, I need to calculate the product of 2 and 4, and then compare it to the current hour of the day.

Action: calculator_multiply
Action Input: {'text': '2 * 4'}


------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:58:36,682 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO -
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Calling tools: calculator_multiply
Tool's input: {"text": "2 * 4"}
Tool's response:
The product of 2 * 4 is 8
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:58:37,704 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO -
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Agent input: Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?
Agent's thoughts:
Thought: Now that I have the product of 2 and 4, I need to get the current hour of the day to compare it with the product.

Action: current_datetime
Action Input: None
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:58:37,710 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO -
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Calling tools: current_datetime
Tool's input: None
Tool's response:
The current time of day is 2025-04-23 15:58:37
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:58:38,865 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO -
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Agent input: Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?
Agent's thoughts:
Thought: Now that I have the current time of day, I can extract the hour and compare it with the product of 2 and 4.

Action: calculator_inequality
Action Input: {'text': '8 > 15'}
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:58:38,871 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO -
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Calling tools: calculator_inequality
Tool's input: {"text": "8 > 15"}
Tool's response:
First number 8 is less than the second number 15
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:58:39,978 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO -
------------------------------
[AGENT]
Agent input: Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?
Agent's thoughts:
Thought: I now know the final answer

Final Answer: No, the product of 2 * 4 (which is 8) is less than the current hour of the day (which is 15).
------------------------------
2025-04-23 15:58:39,981 - aiq.front_ends.console.console_front_end_plugin - INFO -
--------------------------------------------------
Workflow Result:
['No, the product of 2 * 4 (which is 8) is less than the current hour of the day (which is 15).']
```

### Examine the Traces in Phoenix
Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:6006` to view the traces.

## Using Weave for Tracing
You can use Weave to trace the workflow by following the instructions in the [Fine-grained Tracing with Weave](../../docs/source/guides/fine-grained-tracing-with-weave.md) guide.
Sample usage:
```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config-weave.yml --input "Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?"
```

## Accuracy Evaluation
The answers generated by the workflow can be evaluated using the [Tunable RAG Evaluator](../../docs/source/concepts/evaluate.md#tunable-rag-evaluator). A sample dataset is provided in `examples/simple_calculator/data/simple_calculator.json`.

To run the evaluation, use the `aiq eval` command:

```bash
aiq eval --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config-tunable-rag-eval.yml
```

The evaluation results will be saved in `examples/simple_calculator/.tmp/eval/simple_calculator/tuneable_eval_output.json`.

## Deployment-Oriented Setup

For a production deployment, use Docker:

### Build the Docker Image

Prior to building the Docker image ensure that you have followed the steps in the [Installation and Setup](#installation-and-setup) section, and you are currently in the AIQ Toolkit virtual environment.

From the root directory of the Simple Calculator repository, build the Docker image:

```bash
docker build --build-arg AIQ_VERSION=$(python -m setuptools_scm) -t simple_calculator -f examples/simple_calculator/Dockerfile .
```

### Run the Docker Container
Deploy the container:

```bash
docker run -p 8000:8000 -p 6006:6006 -e NVIDIA_API_KEY simple_calculator
```

Note, a phoenix telemetry service will be exposed at port 6006.

### Test the API
Use the following curl command to test the deployed API:

```bash
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:8000/generate' \
  -H 'accept: application/json' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{"input_message": "Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?"}'
  ```

  ### Expected API Output
  The API response should be similar to the following:

```bash
{
  "input": "Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?",
  "output": "No, the product of 2 * 4 (which is 8) is less than the current hour of the day (which is 16)."
}
```

## Using MCP Services for running the workflow

The `config-mcp-client.yml` file demonstrates how to use an MCP service as a tool in the AIQ Toolkit `simple_calculator` workflow.

### MCP Server Setup

Follow the instructions in the [MCP Server README](../mcp_server/README.md) to setup the MCP server. Use the `mcp-server-time` service for this example.

### Running the workflow with MCP service

The `config-mcp-client.yml` file demonstrates how to use an MCP service as a tool in the AIQ Toolkit `simple_calculator` workflow.

```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/simple_calculator/configs/config-mcp-client.yml --input "Is the product of 2 * 4 greater than the current hour of the day?"
```

**Expected Output**
You should see the workflow using the MCP service as a tool to get the current hour of the day. The output has been truncated for brevity.
```console
The agent's thoughts are:
Thought: Now that I have the product of 2 and 4, I need to get the current hour of the day to compare it with the product.

Action: mcp_time_tool
Action Input: {'timezone': 'UTC'}
2025-04-14 14:46:58,875 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO - Calling tool mcp_time_tool with input: {'timezone': 'UTC'}
2025-04-14 14:46:58,875 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO - Successfully parsed structured tool input from Action Input
2025-04-14 14:46:58,879 - mcp.client.sse - INFO - Connecting to SSE endpoint: http://0.0.0.0:8080/sse
2025-04-14 14:46:58,930 - httpx - INFO - HTTP Request: GET http://0.0.0.0:8080/sse "HTTP/1.1 200 OK"
2025-04-14 14:46:58,930 - mcp.client.sse - INFO - Received endpoint URL: http://0.0.0.0:8080/messages/?session_id=18f6ee191b6e488eb897c3ee9cab08ea
2025-04-14 14:46:58,930 - mcp.client.sse - INFO - Starting post writer with endpoint URL: http://0.0.0.0:8080/messages/?session_id=18f6ee191b6e488eb897c3ee9cab08ea
2025-04-14 14:46:58,935 - httpx - INFO - HTTP Request: POST http://0.0.0.0:8080/messages/?session_id=18f6ee191b6e488eb897c3ee9cab08ea "HTTP/1.1 202 Accepted"
2025-04-14 14:46:58,939 - httpx - INFO - HTTP Request: POST http://0.0.0.0:8080/messages/?session_id=18f6ee191b6e488eb897c3ee9cab08ea "HTTP/1.1 202 Accepted"
2025-04-14 14:46:58,943 - httpx - INFO - HTTP Request: POST http://0.0.0.0:8080/messages/?session_id=18f6ee191b6e488eb897c3ee9cab08ea "HTTP/1.1 202 Accepted"
2025-04-14 14:46:58,954 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO - Querying agent, attempt: 1
2025-04-14 14:46:59,981 - aiq.agent.react_agent.agent - INFO -

>SNIP<

Thought: I now know the final answer

Final Answer: No, the product of 2 * 4 (which is 8) is less than the current hour of the day (which is 21).
2025-04-14 14:47:00,941 - aiq.observability.async_otel_listener - INFO - Intermediate step stream completed. No more events will arrive.
2025-04-14 14:47:00,941 - aiq.front_ends.console.console_front_end_plugin - INFO - --------------------------------------------------
Workflow Result:
['No, the product of 2 * 4 (which is 8) is less than the current hour of the day (which is 21).']
--------------------------------------------------
```
