.devcontainer/README.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2022-2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# AgentIQ Devcontainer

The AgentIQ devcontainer is provided as a quick-to-set-up development and exploration environment for use with [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) (Code). The devcontainer is a lightweight container which mounts-in a Conda environment with cached packages, alleviating long Conda download times on subsequent launches. It provides a simple framework for adding developer-centric [scripts](#development-scripts), and incorporates some helpful Code plugins, such as clangd and CMake support.

More information about devcontainers can be found at [`containers.dev`](https://containers.dev/).

## Get Started

To get started, simply open the AgentIQ repository root folder within Code. A window should appear at the bottom-right corner of the editor asking if you would like to reopen the workspace inside of the dev container. After clicking the confirmation dialog, the container will first build, then launch, then remote-attach.

If the window does not appear, or you would like to rebuild the container, click ctrl-shift-p and search for `Dev Containers: Rebuild and Reopen in Container`. Hit enter, and the container will first build, then launch, then remote-attach.

Once connected to the devcontainer within code, the `setup-aiq-env` script will begin to run and solve a AgentIQ Conda environment (this Conda environment is local to the AgentIQ repository and dev container and will not override any host environments). You should see the script executing in one of Code's integrated terminal. Once the script has completed, we're ready to start development or exploration of AgentIQ. By default, each _new_ integrated terminal will automatically Conda activate the AgentIQ environment.

## Development Scripts
Several convenient scripts are available in the devcontainer's `PATH` (`.devcontainer/bin`) for starting, stopping, and interacting with Triton and Kafka. More scripts can be added as needed.

Commit message:

Rename AgentIQ to Agent Intelligence Toolkit (#160)
Name Usage:
* Full Name: Agent Intelligence Toolkit
  - Use for document titles, webpage headers, any public descriptions
* Short Name: AIQ Toolkit
  - Use after Agent Intelligence Toolkit has been referenced in blogs, docs, and other public locations
* Uppercase No Space: AIQToolkit
  - Use for situations where capitalization will be preserved like the Github URL, directories, etc.
* Lowercase No Space: aiqtoolkit
  - Use for URLs, pypi package, any place where spaces are not allowed and casing is not preserved.

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/AgentIQ/blob/develop/docs/source/advanced/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - David Gardner (https://github.com/dagardner-nv)

Approvers:
  - Anuradha Karuppiah (https://github.com/AnuradhaKaruppiah)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/pull/160

.devcontainer/README.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2022-2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# AIQ Toolkit Devcontainer

The AIQ Toolkit devcontainer is provided as a quick-to-set-up development and exploration environment for use with [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) (Code). The devcontainer is a lightweight container which mounts-in a Conda environment with cached packages, alleviating long Conda download times on subsequent launches. It provides a simple framework for adding developer-centric [scripts](#development-scripts), and incorporates some helpful Code plugins, such as clangd and CMake support.

More information about devcontainers can be found at [`containers.dev`](https://containers.dev/).

## Get Started

To get started, simply open the AIQ Toolkit repository root folder within Code. A window should appear at the bottom-right corner of the editor asking if you would like to reopen the workspace inside of the dev container. After clicking the confirmation dialog, the container will first build, then launch, then remote-attach.

If the window does not appear, or you would like to rebuild the container, click ctrl-shift-p and search for `Dev Containers: Rebuild and Reopen in Container`. Hit enter, and the container will first build, then launch, then remote-attach.

Once connected to the devcontainer within code, the `setup-aiq-env` script will begin to run and solve a AIQ Toolkit Conda environment (this Conda environment is local to the AIQ Toolkit repository and dev container and will not override any host environments). You should see the script executing in one of Code's integrated terminal. Once the script has completed, we're ready to start development or exploration of AIQ Toolkit. By default, each _new_ integrated terminal will automatically Conda activate the AIQ Toolkit environment.

## Development Scripts
Several convenient scripts are available in the devcontainer's `PATH` (`.devcontainer/bin`) for starting, stopping, and interacting with Triton and Kafka. More scripts can be added as needed.
