examples/README.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# AgentIQ Examples

Each AgentIQ examples demonstrates a particular feature or use case of the AgentIQ library. Most of these contain a custom [workflow](../docs/source/guides/create-customize-workflows.md) along with a set of custom tools ([functions](../docs/source/concepts/functions.md) in AgentIQ). The examples can we used as a starting off point for creating your own custom workflows and tools. Each example contains a `README.md` file that explains the use case along with instructions on how to run the example.

To run the examples, you need to install AgentIQ from source. For more information on installing AgentIQ from source, if you have not already done so follow the instructions in [Install From Source](../docs/source/intro/install.md#install-from-source) .

Commit message:

Rename AgentIQ to Agent Intelligence Toolkit (#160)
Name Usage:
* Full Name: Agent Intelligence Toolkit
  - Use for document titles, webpage headers, any public descriptions
* Short Name: AIQ Toolkit
  - Use after Agent Intelligence Toolkit has been referenced in blogs, docs, and other public locations
* Uppercase No Space: AIQToolkit
  - Use for situations where capitalization will be preserved like the Github URL, directories, etc.
* Lowercase No Space: aiqtoolkit
  - Use for URLs, pypi package, any place where spaces are not allowed and casing is not preserved.

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/AgentIQ/blob/develop/docs/source/advanced/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - David Gardner (https://github.com/dagardner-nv)

Approvers:
  - Anuradha Karuppiah (https://github.com/AnuradhaKaruppiah)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/pull/160

examples/README.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Agent Intelligence Toolkit Examples

Each Agent Intelligence Toolkit (AIQ Toolkit) example demonstrates a particular feature or use case of the AIQ Toolkit library. Most of these contain a custom [workflow](../docs/source/guides/create-customize-workflows.md) along with a set of custom tools ([functions](../docs/source/concepts/functions.md) in AIQ Toolkit). The examples can we used as a starting off point for creating your own custom workflows and tools. Each example contains a `README.md` file that explains the use case along with instructions on how to run the example.

To run the examples, you need to install AIQ Toolkit from source. For more information on installing AIQ Toolkit from source, if you have not already done so follow the instructions in [Install From Source](../docs/source/intro/install.md#install-from-source) .
