examples/custom_functions/plot_charts/README.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

<!--
  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2024-2025 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
  SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
-->

# Plot Charts Agent

A simple and reusable example that demonstrates creating charts from data using the AIQ Toolkit. This workflow can generate line charts, bar charts, and scatter plots from JSON data files based on user requests. The implementation follows AIQ Toolkit best practices for configuration-driven, reusable workflows.

## Table of Contents

* [Key Features](#key-features)
* [Installation and Usage](#installation-and-setup)
* [Configuration](#configuration)
* [Example Usage](#example-usage)

## Key Features

- **Data Visualization Workflow:** Demonstrates a custom `plot_charts` workflow type that generates line charts, bar charts, and scatter plots from JSON data files based on natural language requests.
- **Python Plotting Integration:** Shows how to integrate Python's `matplotlib` library for chart generation within the AIQ toolkit framework.
- **JSON Data Processing:** Demonstrates parsing and visualization of structured JSON data with configurable x-values and multiple y-value series with labels.
- **LLM-Enhanced Descriptions:** Uses configured LLMs to generate intelligent, contextual descriptions of the created charts for better user understanding.
- **Configurable Chart Parameters:** Shows how to customize chart types, data sources, output directories, figure sizes, and data point limits through YAML configuration.

## Installation and Setup

### Setup Virtual Environment and Install AIQ Toolkit

If you have not already done so, follow the instructions in the [Install Guide](../../../docs/source/quick-start/installing.md#install-from-source) to create the development environment and install AIQ toolkit.

### Install this Workflow:

From the root directory of the AIQ toolkit library, run the following commands:

```bash
uv pip install -e examples/custom_functions/plot_charts
```

### Set Up API Keys

If you have not already done so, follow the [Obtaining API Keys](../../../docs/source/quick-start/installing.md#obtaining-api-keys) instructions to obtain an NVIDIA API key. You need to set your NVIDIA API key as an environment variable to access NVIDIA AI services:

```bash
export NVIDIA_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
```

## Configuration

The workflow is fully configurable through the `config.yml` file. Here are the available configuration options:

### Data Configuration
- **`data_file_path`**: Path to the JSON data file (default: `"example_data.json"`)
- **`output_directory`**: Directory where charts will be saved (default: `"outputs"`)

### Chart Configuration
- **`chart_types`**: List of supported chart types (default: `["line", "bar", "scatter"]`)
- **`max_data_points`**: Maximum number of data points to prevent excessive processing (default: `100`)
- **`figure_size`**: Chart dimensions as [width, height] (default: `[10, 6]`)

### Example Configuration

```yaml
workflow:
  _type: plot_charts
  llm_name: nim_llm
  data_file_path: "my_custom_data.json"
  output_directory: "my_charts"
  chart_types: ["line", "bar"]
  max_data_points: 50
  figure_size: [12, 8]
```

### Data Format

The data file should be in JSON format with the following structure:

```json
{
  "xValues": ["2020", "2021", "2022", "2023", "2024"],
  "yValues": [
    {
      "data": [2, 5, 2.2, 7.5, 3],
      "label": "USA"
    },
    {
      "data": [2, 5.5, 2, 8.5, 1.5],
      "label": "EMEA"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Example Usage

### Run the Workflow

Run the following command from the root of the AIQ toolkit repo to execute this workflow:

```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/custom_functions/plot_charts/src/aiq_plot_charts/configs/config.yml --input "create a line chart"
```

**Expected Output**

```console
aiq run --config_file examples/custom_functions/plot_charts/src/aiq_plot_charts/configs/config.yml --input "create a line chart"


Configuration Summary:
--------------------
Workflow Type: plot_charts
Number of Functions: 0
Number of LLMs: 1
Number of Embedders: 0
Number of Memory: 0
Number of Retrievers: 0

2025-07-18 14:48:28,247 - aiq_plot_charts.register - INFO - Processing chart request: create a line chart
2025-07-18 14:48:28,249 - aiq_plot_charts.register - INFO - Successfully loaded data from /Users/yuchenz/Desktop/Work/Project/AgentIQ/examples/custom_functions/plot_charts/src/aiq_plot_charts/../../example_data.json
2025-07-18 14:48:28,249 - aiq_plot_charts.register - INFO - Selected chart type: line
2025-07-18 14:48:28,522 - matplotlib.category - INFO - Using categorical units to plot a list of strings that are all parsable as floats or dates. If these strings should be plotted as numbers, cast to the appropriate data type before plotting.
2025-07-18 14:48:28,523 - matplotlib.category - INFO - Using categorical units to plot a list of strings that are all parsable as floats or dates. If these strings should be plotted as numbers, cast to the appropriate data type before plotting.
2025-07-18 14:48:28,523 - matplotlib.category - INFO - Using categorical units to plot a list of strings that are all parsable as floats or dates. If these strings should be plotted as numbers, cast to the appropriate data type before plotting.
2025-07-18 14:48:28,523 - matplotlib.category - INFO - Using categorical units to plot a list of strings that are all parsable as floats or dates. If these strings should be plotted as numbers, cast to the appropriate data type before plotting.
2025-07-18 14:48:30,092 - aiq_plot_charts.register - INFO - Successfully created chart: outputs/line_chart_1752875308.png
2025-07-18 14:48:30,093 - aiq.front_ends.console.console_front_end_plugin - INFO -
--------------------------------------------------
Workflow Result:
['Successfully created line chart saved to: outputs/line_chart_1752875308.png\n\nChart description: The line chart shows the trend of two regions, USA and EMEA, over a 5-year period from 2020 to 2024, with both regions experiencing fluctuations in their values. The USA region appears to have a more stable trend, while the EMEA region shows a more significant increase in 2021 and 2023, followed by a sharp decline in 2024.']
```

### Different Chart Types

You can request different chart types:

```bash
# Bar chart
aiq run --config_file examples/custom_functions/plot_charts/src/aiq_plot_charts/configs/config.yml --input "create a bar chart comparing the data"

# Scatter plot
aiq run --config_file examples/custom_functions/plot_charts/src/aiq_plot_charts/configs/config.yml --input "show me a scatter plot"
```

### Launch the Workflow Server

Run the following command from the root of the AIQ toolkit repo to serve this workflow:

```bash
aiq serve --config_file examples/custom_functions/plot_charts/src/aiq_plot_charts/configs/config.yml
```

**Triggering the Workflow Server**

The workflow server can be triggered using the following curl command:

```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url http://localhost:8000/generate \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{"input_message": "create a line chart showing trends over time"}'
```

**Expected Output**
```json
{
  "value": "Successfully created line chart saved to: outputs/line_chart_1703123456.png\n\nChart description: The line chart displays comparative performance data for USA and EMEA regions across a five-year period."
}
```

## Customization Examples

### Using Different Data Sources

1. Create your own data file following the JSON format above
2. Update the configuration:

```yaml
workflow:
  _type: plot_charts
  llm_name: nim_llm
  data_file_path: "path/to/your/data.json"
```

### Customizing Chart Types

To support only specific chart types:

```yaml
workflow:
  _type: plot_charts
  llm_name: nim_llm
  chart_types: ["bar"]  # Only bar charts
```

### Changing Output Location

To save charts to a specific directory:

```yaml
workflow:
  _type: plot_charts
  llm_name: nim_llm
  output_directory: "/path/to/your/charts"
```

Commit message:

Unify examples README structure (#485)
* Ensure README structures are aligned for all examples -- including installation and prerequisites
* Add Table of Contents to examples
* Replace instances of AIQ toolkit with NeMo Agent toolkit

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Agent-Toolkit/blob/develop/docs/source/resources/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - Will Killian (https://github.com/willkill07)

Approvers:
  - Michael Demoret (https://github.com/mdemoret-nv)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Agent-Toolkit/pull/485

examples/custom_functions/plot_charts/README.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

<!--
  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2024-2025 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
  SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
-->

# Plot Charts Agent

A simple and reusable example that demonstrates creating charts from data using the AIQ Toolkit. This workflow can generate line charts, bar charts, and scatter plots from JSON data files based on user requests. The implementation follows AIQ Toolkit best practices for configuration-driven, reusable workflows.

## Table of Contents

* [Key Features](#key-features)
* [Installation and Usage](#installation-and-setup)
* [Configuration](#configuration)
* [Example Usage](#example-usage)

## Key Features

- **Data Visualization Workflow:** Demonstrates a custom `plot_charts` workflow type that generates line charts, bar charts, and scatter plots from JSON data files based on natural language requests.
- **Python Plotting Integration:** Shows how to integrate Python's `matplotlib` library for chart generation within the NeMo Agent toolkit framework.
- **JSON Data Processing:** Demonstrates parsing and visualization of structured JSON data with configurable x-values and multiple y-value series with labels.
- **LLM-Enhanced Descriptions:** Uses configured LLMs to generate intelligent, contextual descriptions of the created charts for better user understanding.
- **Configurable Chart Parameters:** Shows how to customize chart types, data sources, output directories, figure sizes, and data point limits through YAML configuration.

## Installation and Setup

### Setup Virtual Environment and Install AIQ Toolkit

If you have not already done so, follow the instructions in the [Install Guide](../../../docs/source/quick-start/installing.md#install-from-source) to create the development environment and install NeMo Agent toolkit.

### Install this Workflow:

From the root directory of the NeMo Agent toolkit library, run the following commands:

```bash
uv pip install -e examples/custom_functions/plot_charts
```

### Set Up API Keys

If you have not already done so, follow the [Obtaining API Keys](../../../docs/source/quick-start/installing.md#obtaining-api-keys) instructions to obtain an NVIDIA API key. You need to set your NVIDIA API key as an environment variable to access NVIDIA AI services:

```bash
export NVIDIA_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
```

## Configuration

The workflow is fully configurable through the `config.yml` file. Here are the available configuration options:

### Data Configuration
- **`data_file_path`**: Path to the JSON data file (default: `"example_data.json"`)
- **`output_directory`**: Directory where charts will be saved (default: `"outputs"`)

### Chart Configuration
- **`chart_types`**: List of supported chart types (default: `["line", "bar", "scatter"]`)
- **`max_data_points`**: Maximum number of data points to prevent excessive processing (default: `100`)
- **`figure_size`**: Chart dimensions as [width, height] (default: `[10, 6]`)

### Example Configuration

```yaml
workflow:
  _type: plot_charts
  llm_name: nim_llm
  data_file_path: "my_custom_data.json"
  output_directory: "my_charts"
  chart_types: ["line", "bar"]
  max_data_points: 50
  figure_size: [12, 8]
```

### Data Format

The data file should be in JSON format with the following structure:

```json
{
  "xValues": ["2020", "2021", "2022", "2023", "2024"],
  "yValues": [
    {
      "data": [2, 5, 2.2, 7.5, 3],
      "label": "USA"
    },
    {
      "data": [2, 5.5, 2, 8.5, 1.5],
      "label": "EMEA"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Example Usage

### Run the Workflow

Run the following command from the root of the NeMo Agent toolkit repo to execute this workflow:

```bash
aiq run --config_file examples/custom_functions/plot_charts/src/aiq_plot_charts/configs/config.yml --input "create a line chart"
```

**Expected Workflow Output**
```console
<snipped for brevity>

2025-07-18 14:48:28,247 - aiq_plot_charts.register - INFO - Processing chart request: create a line chart
2025-07-18 14:48:28,249 - aiq_plot_charts.register - INFO - Successfully loaded data from /Users/yuchenz/Desktop/Work/Project/AgentIQ/examples/custom_functions/plot_charts/src/aiq_plot_charts/../../example_data.json
2025-07-18 14:48:28,249 - aiq_plot_charts.register - INFO - Selected chart type: line
2025-07-18 14:48:28,522 - matplotlib.category - INFO - Using categorical units to plot a list of strings that are all parsable as floats or dates. If these strings should be plotted as numbers, cast to the appropriate data type before plotting.
2025-07-18 14:48:28,523 - matplotlib.category - INFO - Using categorical units to plot a list of strings that are all parsable as floats or dates. If these strings should be plotted as numbers, cast to the appropriate data type before plotting.
2025-07-18 14:48:28,523 - matplotlib.category - INFO - Using categorical units to plot a list of strings that are all parsable as floats or dates. If these strings should be plotted as numbers, cast to the appropriate data type before plotting.
2025-07-18 14:48:28,523 - matplotlib.category - INFO - Using categorical units to plot a list of strings that are all parsable as floats or dates. If these strings should be plotted as numbers, cast to the appropriate data type before plotting.
2025-07-18 14:48:30,092 - aiq_plot_charts.register - INFO - Successfully created chart: outputs/line_chart_1752875308.png
2025-07-18 14:48:30,093 - aiq.front_ends.console.console_front_end_plugin - INFO -
--------------------------------------------------
Workflow Result:
['Successfully created line chart saved to: outputs/line_chart_1752875308.png\n\nChart description: The line chart shows the trend of two regions, USA and EMEA, over a 5-year period from 2020 to 2024, with both regions experiencing fluctuations in their values. The USA region appears to have a more stable trend, while the EMEA region shows a more significant increase in 2021 and 2023, followed by a sharp decline in 2024.']
```

### Different Chart Types

You can request different chart types:

```bash
# Bar chart
aiq run --config_file examples/custom_functions/plot_charts/src/aiq_plot_charts/configs/config.yml --input "create a bar chart comparing the data"

# Scatter plot
aiq run --config_file examples/custom_functions/plot_charts/src/aiq_plot_charts/configs/config.yml --input "show me a scatter plot"
```

### Launch the Workflow Server

Run the following command from the root of the NeMo Agent toolkit repo to serve this workflow:

```bash
aiq serve --config_file examples/custom_functions/plot_charts/src/aiq_plot_charts/configs/config.yml
```

**Triggering the Workflow Server**

The workflow server can be triggered using the following curl command:

```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url http://localhost:8000/generate \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{"input_message": "create a line chart showing trends over time"}'
```

**Expected Output**
```json
{
  "value": "Successfully created line chart saved to: outputs/line_chart_1703123456.png\n\nChart description: The line chart displays comparative performance data for USA and EMEA regions across a five-year period."
}
```

## Customization Examples

### Using Different Data Sources

1. Create your own data file following the JSON format above
2. Update the configuration:

```yaml
workflow:
  _type: plot_charts
  llm_name: nim_llm
  data_file_path: "path/to/your/data.json"
```

### Customizing Chart Types

To support only specific chart types:

```yaml
workflow:
  _type: plot_charts
  llm_name: nim_llm
  chart_types: ["bar"]  # Only bar charts
```

### Changing Output Location

To save charts to a specific directory:

```yaml
workflow:
  _type: plot_charts
  llm_name: nim_llm
  output_directory: "/path/to/your/charts"
```
