docs/source/guides/custom-evaluator.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Custom Evaluator
:::{note}
It is recommended that the [Evaluating AgentIQ Workflows](./evaluate.md) guide be read before proceeding with this detailed documentation.
:::

AgentIQ provides a set of evaluators to run and evaluate AgentIQ workflows. In addition to the built-in evaluators, AgentIQ provides a plugin system to add custom evaluators.


## Existing Evaluators
You can view the list of existing evaluators by running the following command:
```bash
aiq info components -t evaluator
```
`ragas` is an example of an existing evaluator. The `ragas` evaluator is used to evaluate the accuracy of a workflow output.

## Extending AgentIQ with Custom Evaluators
To extend AgentIQ with custom evaluators, you need to create an evaluator function and register it with AgentIQ.

This section provides a step-by-step guide to create and register a custom evaluator with AgentIQ. A similarity evaluator is used as an example to demonstrate the process.

### Evaluator Configuration
The evaluator configuration is used to specify the evaluator `name` and other evaluator-specific configuration parameters.

The evaluator function provides an asynchronous evaluation method.

The following is an example of an evaluator configuration and evaluator function. We add this code to a new `evaluator_register.py` file in the simple example directory for testing purposes.

`examples/simple/src/aiq_simple/evaluator_register.py`:
```python
from pydantic import Field

from aiq.builder.builder import EvalBuilder
from aiq.builder.evaluator import EvaluatorInfo
from aiq.cli.register_workflow import register_evaluator
from aiq.data_models.evaluator import EvaluatorBaseConfig


class SimilarityEvaluatorConfig(EvaluatorBaseConfig, name="similarity"):
    '''Configuration for custom similarity evaluator'''
    similarity_type: str = Field(description="Similarity type to be computed", default="cosine")


@register_evaluator(config_type=SimilarityEvaluatorConfig)
async def register_similarity_evaluator(config: SimilarityEvaluatorConfig, builder: EvalBuilder):
    '''Register custom evaluator'''
    from .similarity_evaluator import SimilarityEvaluator
    evaluator = SimilarityEvaluator(config.similarity_type, builder.get_max_concurrency())

    yield EvaluatorInfo(config=config, evaluate_fn=evaluator.evaluate, description="Simlaity Evaluator")
```

`SimilarityEvaluatorConfig` specifies the evaluator name. The `similarity_type` configuration parameter is used to specify the type of similarity to be computed.

The `register_similarity_evaluator` function is used to register the evaluator with AgentIQ via the `register_evaluator` decorator. This function provides an asynchronous evaluation method.

`SimilarityEvaluator` class and the evaluation method, `evaluator.evaluate`,  are explained in the section [Similarity Evaluator](#similarity-evaluator).

To ensure that evaluator is registered the evaluator function is imported, but not used, in the simple example's `register.py`

`examples/simple/src/aiq_simple/register.py`:
```python
from .evaluator_register import register_similarity_evaluator  # pylint: disable=unused-import
```

### Understanding `EvalInput` and `EvalOutput`
The asynchronous evaluate method provide by the custom evaluator takes an `EvalInput` object as input and returns an `EvalOutput` object as output.

`EvalInput` is a list of `EvalInputItem` objects. Each `EvalInputItem` object contains the following fields:
- `id`: The unique identifier for the item. It is defined in the dataset file and can be an integer or a string.
- `input_obj`: This is typically the question. It is derived from the dataset file and can be a string or any serializable object.
- `expected_output_obj`: The expected answer for the question. It is derived from the dataset file and can be a string or any serializable object.
- `output_obj`: The answer generated by the workflow for the question. This can be a string or any serializable object.
- `trajectory`: List of intermediate steps returned by the workflow. This is a list of `IntermediateStep` objects.

`EvalOutput` contains the following fields:
- `average_score`: The average score of all the items in the evaluation input. This is typically a floating point number between 0 and 1. But it can be any serializable object.
- `eval_output_items`: A list of `EvalOutputItem` objects. Each `EvalOutputItem` object contains the following fields:
  - `id`: The unique identifier for the input item.
  - `score`: The score for the item. This is typically a floating point number between 0 and 1. But it can be any serializable object.
  - `reasoning`: The reasoning for the score. This can be any serializable object.

The evaluate method computes the score for each item in the evaluation input and returns an `EvalOutput` object.

### Similarity Evaluator
Similarity evaluator is used as an example to demonstrate the process of creating and registering a custom evaluator with AgentIQ. We add this code to a new `similarity_evaluator.py` file in the simple example directory for testing purposes.

`examples/simple/src/aiq_simple/similarity_evaluator.py`:
```python
import asyncio

from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import TfidfVectorizer
from sklearn.metrics.pairwise import cosine_similarity
from tqdm import tqdm

from aiq.eval.evaluator.evaluator_model import EvalInput
from aiq.eval.evaluator.evaluator_model import EvalOutput
from aiq.eval.evaluator.evaluator_model import EvalOutputItem
from aiq.eval.evaluator.evaluator_model import EvalInputItem
from aiq.eval.utils.tqdm_position_registry import TqdmPositionRegistry


class SimilarityEvaluator:
    '''Similarity evaluator class'''

    def __init__(self, similarity_type: str, max_concurrency: int):
        self.max_concurrency = max_concurrency
        self.similarity_type = similarity_type
        self.vectorizer = TfidfVectorizer()
        self.semaphore = asyncio.Semaphore(self.max_concurrency)

    async def evaluate(self, eval_input: EvalInput) -> EvalOutput:
        '''Evaluate function'''

        async def process_item(item):
            """Compute cosine similarity for an individual item"""
            question = item.input_obj
            answer = item.expected_output_obj
            generated_answer = item.output_obj

            # Compute TF-IDF vectors
            tfidf_matrix = self.vectorizer.fit_transform([answer, generated_answer])

            # Compute cosine similarity score
            similarity_score = round(cosine_similarity(tfidf_matrix[0], tfidf_matrix[1])[0][0], 2)

            # Provide reasoning for the score
            reasoning = {
                "question": question,
                "answer": answer,
                "generated_answer": generated_answer,
                "similarity_type": "cosine"
            }
            return similarity_score, reasoning

        async def wrapped_process(item: EvalInputItem) -> tuple[float, dict]:
            """
            Process an item asynchronously and update the progress bar.
            Use the semaphore to limit the number of concurrent items.
            """
            async with self.semaphore:
              result = await process_item(item)
              # Update the progress bar
              pbar.update(1)
              return result

        try:
            # Claim a tqdm position to display the progress bar
            tqdm_position = TqdmPositionRegistry.claim()
            # Create a progress bar
            pbar = tqdm(total=len(eval_input.eval_input_items), desc="Evaluating Similarity", position=tqdm_position)
            # Process items concurrently with a limit on concurrency
            results = await asyncio.gather(*[wrapped_process(item) for item in eval_input.eval_input_items])
        finally:
            pbar.close()
            TqdmPositionRegistry.release(tqdm_position)

        # Extract scores and reasonings
        sample_scores, sample_reasonings = zip(*results) if results else ([], [])

        # Compute average score
        avg_score = round(sum(sample_scores) / len(sample_scores), 2) if sample_scores else 0.0

        # Construct EvalOutputItems
        eval_output_items = [
            EvalOutputItem(id=item.id, score=score, reasoning=reasoning)
            for item, score, reasoning in zip(eval_input.eval_input_items, sample_scores, sample_reasonings)
        ]

        return EvalOutput(average_score=avg_score, eval_output_items=eval_output_items)
```
`SimilarityEvaluator` class is used to compute the similarity between the expected output and the generated output. The `evaluate` method computes the cosine similarity between the expected output and the generated output for each item in the evaluation input.

To handle concurrency, the `process_item` method is used to compute the similarity score for an individual item. The `process_item` method is executed concurrently using the `tqdm.asyncio.gather` method.

This asynchronous handling of items is particularly useful when evaluating a large number of items via a service endpoint such as a judge LLM.

The `evaluate` method returns an `EvalOutput` object that contains the average score and the similarity score for each item in the evaluation input.

### Display all evaluators
To display all evaluators, run the following command:
```bash
aiq info components -t evaluator
```
This will now display the custom evaluator `similarity` in the list of evaluators.

### Evaluation configuration
Add the evaluator to the workflow configuration file in the `eval.evaluators` section. The following is an example of the similarity evaluator configuration:
`examples/simple/configs/eval_config.yml`:
```yaml
eval:
  evaluators:
    similarity_eval:
      _type: similarity
      similarity_type: cosine
```
The `_type` field specifies the evaluator name. The keyword `similarity_eval` can be set to any string. It is used as a prefix to the evaluator output file name.

### Evaluating the workflow
Run and evaluate the workflow using the following command:
```bash
aiq eval --config_file=examples/simple/configs/eval_config.yml
```

### Evaluation results
The evaluation results are stored in the output directory specified in the workflow configuration file.
`examples/simple/configs/eval_config.yml`:
```yaml
eval:
  general:
    output_dir: ./.tmp/aiq/examples/simple/
```

The results of each evaluator is stored in a separate file with name `<keyword>_eval_output.json`. The following is an example of the similarity evaluator output file:
`examples/simple/.tmp/aiq/examples/simple/similarity_eval_output.json`:
```json
{
  "average_score": 0.63,
  "eval_output_items": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "score": 0.56,
      "reasoning": {
        "question": "What is langsmith",
        "answer": "LangSmith is a platform for LLM application development, monitoring, and testing",
        "generated_answer": "LangSmith is a platform for LLM application development, monitoring, and testing. It supports various workflows throughout the application development lifecycle, including automations, threads, annotating traces, adding runs to a dataset, prototyping, and debugging.",
        "similarity_type": "cosine"
      }
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "score": 0.78,
      "reasoning": {
        "question": "How do I proptotype with langsmith",
        "answer": "To prototype with LangSmith, you can use its tracing feature to quickly understand how the model is performing and debug where it is failing. LangSmith provides clear visibility and debugging information at each step of an LLM sequence, making it easier to identify and root-cause issues.",
        "generated_answer": "To prototype with LangSmith, you can use its tracing feature to quickly understand how the model is performing and debug where it is failing. LangSmith provides clear visibility and debugging information at each step of an LLM sequence, making it easier to identify and root-cause issues. Additionally, LangSmith supports automations, threads, and annotating traces, which can be helpful for processing traces at production scale, tracking the performance of multi-turn applications, and refining and improving the application's performance.",
        "similarity_type": "cosine"
      }
    },
  ]
}
```
The contents of the file have been `snipped` for brevity.

# Summary
This guide provides a step-by-step process to create and register a custom evaluator with AgentIQ. The similarity evaluator is used as an example to demonstrate the process. The evaluator configuration, evaluator function, and evaluation results are explained in detail.

Commit message:

Rename AgentIQ to Agent Intelligence Toolkit (#160)
Name Usage:
* Full Name: Agent Intelligence Toolkit
  - Use for document titles, webpage headers, any public descriptions
* Short Name: AIQ Toolkit
  - Use after Agent Intelligence Toolkit has been referenced in blogs, docs, and other public locations
* Uppercase No Space: AIQToolkit
  - Use for situations where capitalization will be preserved like the Github URL, directories, etc.
* Lowercase No Space: aiqtoolkit
  - Use for URLs, pypi package, any place where spaces are not allowed and casing is not preserved.

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/AgentIQ/blob/develop/docs/source/advanced/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - David Gardner (https://github.com/dagardner-nv)

Approvers:
  - Anuradha Karuppiah (https://github.com/AnuradhaKaruppiah)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/pull/160

docs/source/guides/custom-evaluator.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Custom Evaluator
:::{note}
It is recommended that the [Evaluating AIQ Toolkit Workflows](./evaluate.md) guide be read before proceeding with this detailed documentation.
:::

AIQ Toolkit provides a set of evaluators to run and evaluate AIQ Toolkit workflows. In addition to the built-in evaluators, AIQ Toolkit provides a plugin system to add custom evaluators.


## Existing Evaluators
You can view the list of existing evaluators by running the following command:
```bash
aiq info components -t evaluator
```
`ragas` is an example of an existing evaluator. The `ragas` evaluator is used to evaluate the accuracy of a workflow output.

## Extending AIQ Toolkit with Custom Evaluators
To extend AIQ Toolkit with custom evaluators, you need to create an evaluator function and register it with AIQ Toolkit.

This section provides a step-by-step guide to create and register a custom evaluator with AIQ Toolkit. A similarity evaluator is used as an example to demonstrate the process.

### Evaluator Configuration
The evaluator configuration is used to specify the evaluator `name` and other evaluator-specific configuration parameters.

The evaluator function provides an asynchronous evaluation method.

The following is an example of an evaluator configuration and evaluator function. We add this code to a new `evaluator_register.py` file in the simple example directory for testing purposes.

`examples/simple/src/aiq_simple/evaluator_register.py`:
```python
from pydantic import Field

from aiq.builder.builder import EvalBuilder
from aiq.builder.evaluator import EvaluatorInfo
from aiq.cli.register_workflow import register_evaluator
from aiq.data_models.evaluator import EvaluatorBaseConfig


class SimilarityEvaluatorConfig(EvaluatorBaseConfig, name="similarity"):
    '''Configuration for custom similarity evaluator'''
    similarity_type: str = Field(description="Similarity type to be computed", default="cosine")


@register_evaluator(config_type=SimilarityEvaluatorConfig)
async def register_similarity_evaluator(config: SimilarityEvaluatorConfig, builder: EvalBuilder):
    '''Register custom evaluator'''
    from .similarity_evaluator import SimilarityEvaluator
    evaluator = SimilarityEvaluator(config.similarity_type, builder.get_max_concurrency())

    yield EvaluatorInfo(config=config, evaluate_fn=evaluator.evaluate, description="Simlaity Evaluator")
```

`SimilarityEvaluatorConfig` specifies the evaluator name. The `similarity_type` configuration parameter is used to specify the type of similarity to be computed.

The `register_similarity_evaluator` function is used to register the evaluator with AIQ Toolkit via the `register_evaluator` decorator. This function provides an asynchronous evaluation method.

`SimilarityEvaluator` class and the evaluation method, `evaluator.evaluate`,  are explained in the section [Similarity Evaluator](#similarity-evaluator).

To ensure that evaluator is registered the evaluator function is imported, but not used, in the simple example's `register.py`

`examples/simple/src/aiq_simple/register.py`:
```python
from .evaluator_register import register_similarity_evaluator  # pylint: disable=unused-import
```

### Understanding `EvalInput` and `EvalOutput`
The asynchronous evaluate method provide by the custom evaluator takes an `EvalInput` object as input and returns an `EvalOutput` object as output.

`EvalInput` is a list of `EvalInputItem` objects. Each `EvalInputItem` object contains the following fields:
- `id`: The unique identifier for the item. It is defined in the dataset file and can be an integer or a string.
- `input_obj`: This is typically the question. It is derived from the dataset file and can be a string or any serializable object.
- `expected_output_obj`: The expected answer for the question. It is derived from the dataset file and can be a string or any serializable object.
- `output_obj`: The answer generated by the workflow for the question. This can be a string or any serializable object.
- `trajectory`: List of intermediate steps returned by the workflow. This is a list of `IntermediateStep` objects.

`EvalOutput` contains the following fields:
- `average_score`: The average score of all the items in the evaluation input. This is typically a floating point number between 0 and 1. But it can be any serializable object.
- `eval_output_items`: A list of `EvalOutputItem` objects. Each `EvalOutputItem` object contains the following fields:
  - `id`: The unique identifier for the input item.
  - `score`: The score for the item. This is typically a floating point number between 0 and 1. But it can be any serializable object.
  - `reasoning`: The reasoning for the score. This can be any serializable object.

The evaluate method computes the score for each item in the evaluation input and returns an `EvalOutput` object.

### Similarity Evaluator
Similarity evaluator is used as an example to demonstrate the process of creating and registering a custom evaluator with AIQ Toolkit. We add this code to a new `similarity_evaluator.py` file in the simple example directory for testing purposes.

`examples/simple/src/aiq_simple/similarity_evaluator.py`:
```python
import asyncio

from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import TfidfVectorizer
from sklearn.metrics.pairwise import cosine_similarity
from tqdm import tqdm

from aiq.eval.evaluator.evaluator_model import EvalInput
from aiq.eval.evaluator.evaluator_model import EvalOutput
from aiq.eval.evaluator.evaluator_model import EvalOutputItem
from aiq.eval.evaluator.evaluator_model import EvalInputItem
from aiq.eval.utils.tqdm_position_registry import TqdmPositionRegistry


class SimilarityEvaluator:
    '''Similarity evaluator class'''

    def __init__(self, similarity_type: str, max_concurrency: int):
        self.max_concurrency = max_concurrency
        self.similarity_type = similarity_type
        self.vectorizer = TfidfVectorizer()
        self.semaphore = asyncio.Semaphore(self.max_concurrency)

    async def evaluate(self, eval_input: EvalInput) -> EvalOutput:
        '''Evaluate function'''

        async def process_item(item):
            """Compute cosine similarity for an individual item"""
            question = item.input_obj
            answer = item.expected_output_obj
            generated_answer = item.output_obj

            # Compute TF-IDF vectors
            tfidf_matrix = self.vectorizer.fit_transform([answer, generated_answer])

            # Compute cosine similarity score
            similarity_score = round(cosine_similarity(tfidf_matrix[0], tfidf_matrix[1])[0][0], 2)

            # Provide reasoning for the score
            reasoning = {
                "question": question,
                "answer": answer,
                "generated_answer": generated_answer,
                "similarity_type": "cosine"
            }
            return similarity_score, reasoning

        async def wrapped_process(item: EvalInputItem) -> tuple[float, dict]:
            """
            Process an item asynchronously and update the progress bar.
            Use the semaphore to limit the number of concurrent items.
            """
            async with self.semaphore:
              result = await process_item(item)
              # Update the progress bar
              pbar.update(1)
              return result

        try:
            # Claim a tqdm position to display the progress bar
            tqdm_position = TqdmPositionRegistry.claim()
            # Create a progress bar
            pbar = tqdm(total=len(eval_input.eval_input_items), desc="Evaluating Similarity", position=tqdm_position)
            # Process items concurrently with a limit on concurrency
            results = await asyncio.gather(*[wrapped_process(item) for item in eval_input.eval_input_items])
        finally:
            pbar.close()
            TqdmPositionRegistry.release(tqdm_position)

        # Extract scores and reasonings
        sample_scores, sample_reasonings = zip(*results) if results else ([], [])

        # Compute average score
        avg_score = round(sum(sample_scores) / len(sample_scores), 2) if sample_scores else 0.0

        # Construct EvalOutputItems
        eval_output_items = [
            EvalOutputItem(id=item.id, score=score, reasoning=reasoning)
            for item, score, reasoning in zip(eval_input.eval_input_items, sample_scores, sample_reasonings)
        ]

        return EvalOutput(average_score=avg_score, eval_output_items=eval_output_items)
```
`SimilarityEvaluator` class is used to compute the similarity between the expected output and the generated output. The `evaluate` method computes the cosine similarity between the expected output and the generated output for each item in the evaluation input.

To handle concurrency, the `process_item` method is used to compute the similarity score for an individual item. The `process_item` method is executed concurrently using the `tqdm.asyncio.gather` method.

This asynchronous handling of items is particularly useful when evaluating a large number of items via a service endpoint such as a judge LLM.

The `evaluate` method returns an `EvalOutput` object that contains the average score and the similarity score for each item in the evaluation input.

### Display all evaluators
To display all evaluators, run the following command:
```bash
aiq info components -t evaluator
```
This will now display the custom evaluator `similarity` in the list of evaluators.

### Evaluation configuration
Add the evaluator to the workflow configuration file in the `eval.evaluators` section. The following is an example of the similarity evaluator configuration:
`examples/simple/configs/eval_config.yml`:
```yaml
eval:
  evaluators:
    similarity_eval:
      _type: similarity
      similarity_type: cosine
```
The `_type` field specifies the evaluator name. The keyword `similarity_eval` can be set to any string. It is used as a prefix to the evaluator output file name.

### Evaluating the workflow
Run and evaluate the workflow using the following command:
```bash
aiq eval --config_file=examples/simple/configs/eval_config.yml
```

### Evaluation results
The evaluation results are stored in the output directory specified in the workflow configuration file.
`examples/simple/configs/eval_config.yml`:
```yaml
eval:
  general:
    output_dir: ./.tmp/aiq/examples/simple/
```

The results of each evaluator is stored in a separate file with name `<keyword>_eval_output.json`. The following is an example of the similarity evaluator output file:
`examples/simple/.tmp/aiq/examples/simple/similarity_eval_output.json`:
```json
{
  "average_score": 0.63,
  "eval_output_items": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "score": 0.56,
      "reasoning": {
        "question": "What is langsmith",
        "answer": "LangSmith is a platform for LLM application development, monitoring, and testing",
        "generated_answer": "LangSmith is a platform for LLM application development, monitoring, and testing. It supports various workflows throughout the application development lifecycle, including automations, threads, annotating traces, adding runs to a dataset, prototyping, and debugging.",
        "similarity_type": "cosine"
      }
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "score": 0.78,
      "reasoning": {
        "question": "How do I proptotype with langsmith",
        "answer": "To prototype with LangSmith, you can use its tracing feature to quickly understand how the model is performing and debug where it is failing. LangSmith provides clear visibility and debugging information at each step of an LLM sequence, making it easier to identify and root-cause issues.",
        "generated_answer": "To prototype with LangSmith, you can use its tracing feature to quickly understand how the model is performing and debug where it is failing. LangSmith provides clear visibility and debugging information at each step of an LLM sequence, making it easier to identify and root-cause issues. Additionally, LangSmith supports automations, threads, and annotating traces, which can be helpful for processing traces at production scale, tracking the performance of multi-turn applications, and refining and improving the application's performance.",
        "similarity_type": "cosine"
      }
    },
  ]
}
```
The contents of the file have been `snipped` for brevity.

# Summary
This guide provides a step-by-step process to create and register a custom evaluator with AIQ Toolkit. The similarity evaluator is used as an example to demonstrate the process. The evaluator configuration, evaluator function, and evaluation results are explained in detail.
