docs/source/guides/profiler.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2024-2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Profiling an NVIDIA AgentIQ Workflow
In this guide, we will walk you through an end-to-end example of how to profile an AgentIQ workflow using the AgentIQ profiler, which is part of the library's evaluation harness.
We will begin by creating a workflow to profile, explore some of the configuration options of the profiler, and then perform an in-depth analysis of the profiling results.

## Prerequisites

The AgentIQ profiler requires additional dependencies not installed by default.

Install these dependencies by running the following command:
```bash
uv pip install -e .[profiling]
```

Before you begin, ensure you have read the concepts of [AgentIQ Profiler](../concepts/profiler.md) and have a basic understanding of how to build and run an AgentIQ workflow. Also ensure you have read the [AgentIQ Evaluation Concepts](../concepts/evaluate.md) guide.

## Defining a Workflow
For this guide, we will use a simple, but useful, workflow that analyzes the body of a given email to determine if it is a Phishing email. We will define a single tool that takes an email body as input and returns a response on
whether the email is a Phishing email or not. We will then add that tool as the only tool available to the `tool_calling` agent pre-built in the AgentIQ library. Below is the implementation of the phishing tool. The source code for this example can be found at `examples/email_phishing_analyzer/`.

## Configuring the Workflow
The configuration file for the workflow is as follows. Here, pay close attention to how the `profiler` and `eval` sections are configured.

```yaml
## CONFIGURATION OPTIONS OMITTED HERE FOR BREVITY

functions:
  email_phishing_analyzer:
    _type: email_phishing_analyzer
    llm: nim_llm
    prompt: |
      Examine the following email content and determine if it exhibits signs of malicious intent. Look for any
        suspicious signals that may indicate phishing, such as requests for personal information or suspicious tone.

      Email content:
      {body}

      Return your findings as a JSON object with these fields:

      - is_likely_phishing: (boolean) true if phishing is suspected
      - explanation: (string) detailed explanation of your reasoning


## OTHER CONFIGURATION OPTIONS OMITTED FOR BREVITY

eval:
  general:
    output_dir: ./.tmp/eval/examples/email_phishing_analyzer/test_models/llama-3.1-8b-instruct
    verbose: true
    dataset:
        _type: csv
        file_path: examples/email_phishing_analyzer/data/smaller_test.csv
        id_key: "subject"
        structure:
          question_key: body
          answer_key: label

    profiler:
        token_uniqueness_forecast: true
        workflow_runtime_forecast: true
        compute_llm_metrics: true
        csv_exclude_io_text: true
        prompt_caching_prefixes:
          enable: true
          min_frequency: 0.1
        bottleneck_analysis:
          # Can also be simple_stack
          enable_nested_stack: true
        concurrency_spike_analysis:
          enable: true
          spike_threshold: 7

```

Diving deeper into the `eval` section, we see that the `profiler` section is configured with the following options:
- `token_uniqueness_forecast`: Compute inter query token uniqueness
- `workflow_runtime_forecast`: Compute expected workflow runtime
- `compute_llm_metrics`: Compute inference optimization metrics
- `csv_exclude_io_text`: Avoid dumping large text into the output CSV (helpful to not break structure)
- `prompt_caching_prefixes`: Identify common prompt prefixes
- `bottleneck_analysis`: Enable bottleneck analysis
- `concurrency_spike_analysis`: Enable concurrency spike analysis. Set the `spike_threshold` to 7, meaning that any concurrency spike above 7 will be raised to the user specifically.

We also we see the `evaluators` section, which includes the following metrics:
- `rag_accuracy`: Evaluates the accuracy of the answer generated by the workflow against the expected answer or ground truth.
- `rag_groundedness`: Evaluates the `groundedness` of the response generated by the workflow based on the context retrieved by the workflow.
- `rag_relevance`: Evaluates the relevance of the context retrieved by the workflow against the question.

## Running the Profiler
To run the profiler, simply run the `aiq eval` command with the workflow configuration file. The profiler will collect usage statistics and store them in the output directory specified in the configuration file.


```bash
aiq eval --config_file examples/email_phishing_analyzer/configs/<config_file>.yml
```

Among other files, this will produce a `standardized_results_all.csv` file in the `output_dir` specified in the configuration file. This file will contain the profiling results of the workflow that we will use for the rest of the analysis.

## Analyzing the Profiling Results
The remainder of this guide will demonstrate how to perform a simple analysis of the profiling results using the `standardized_results_all.csv` file to compare the performance of various LLMs and evaluate the workflow's efficiency.
Ultimately, we will use the collected telemetry data to identify which LLM we think is the best fit for our workflow.

Particularly, we evaluate the following models:
- `meta-llama-3.1-8b-instruct`
- `meta-llama-3.1-70b-instruct`
- `mixtral-8x22b-instruct`
- `phi-3-medium-4k-instruct`
- `phi-3-mini-4k-instruct`

We run evaluation of the workflow on a small dataset of emails and compare the performance of the LLMs based on the metrics provided by the profiler. Once we run `aiq eval`, we can analyze the `standardized_results_all.csv` file to compare the performance of the LLMs.

Henceforth, we assume that you have run the `aiq eval` command and have the `standardized_results_all.csv` file in the `output_dir` specified in the configuration file. Please also take a moment to create a CSV file containing the concatenated results of the LLMs you wish to compare.

## Plotting Prompt vs Completion Tokens for LLMs
One of the first things we can do is to plot the prompt vs completion tokens for each LLM. This will give us an idea of how the LLMs are performing in terms of token usage. We can use the `standardized_results_all.csv` file to plot this data.

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import pandas as pd
import seaborn as sns

df = pd.read_csv("standardized_results_all.csv")
# Filter LLM_END events
df_llm_end = df[df["event_type"] == "LLM_END"]

# Plot scatter plot
plt.figure(figsize=(10, 6))
sns.scatterplot(
    data=df_llm_end,
    x="prompt_tokens",
    y="completion_tokens",
    hue="llm_name",
    style="function_name",
    s=100  # Marker size
)

# Customize the plot
plt.xlabel("Prompt Tokens", fontsize=12)
plt.ylabel("Completion Tokens", fontsize=12)
plt.title("Prompt Tokens vs Completion Tokens by LLM and Function", fontsize=14)
plt.legend(title="LLM / Function", bbox_to_anchor=(1.05, 1), loc="upper left")
plt.grid(True)
plt.show()
```

The plot will show the prompt tokens on the x-axis and the completion tokens on the y-axis. Each point represents a completion event by an LLM for a given prompt. The color of the point represents the LLM used, and the style represents the function used.
Below is an example of what the plot might look like:

![Prompt vs Completion Tokens](../_static/profiler_token_scatter.png)

We see from the image above that the `meta-llama-3.1-8b-instruct` LLM has the highest prompt token usage and takes many more turns than any other model, perhaps indicating that it fails at tool calling. We also note that none of the `phi-3-*` models succeed at any tool calling, as they have no completion tokens in the
`email_phishing_analyzer` function. This could be due to the fact that the `phi-3-*` models are not well-suited for the task at hand.

## Analyzing Workflow Runtimes
Another important metric to analyze is the workflow runtime. We can use the `standardized_results_all.csv` file to plot the workflow runtime for each LLM. This will give us an idea of how long each LLM takes to complete the workflow and compare if some LLMs are more efficient than others.

```python
df["event_timestamp"] = pd.to_numeric(df["event_timestamp"])

# Filter only LLM_START and LLM_END events
df_llm = df[df["event_type"].isin(["LLM_START", "LLM_END"])]

# Group by example_number and llm_name to get first LLM_START and last LLM_END timestamps
df_runtime = df_llm.groupby(["example_number", "llm_name"]).agg(
    start_time=("event_timestamp", "min"),
    end_time=("event_timestamp", "max")
).reset_index()

# Compute runtime
df_runtime["runtime_seconds"] = df_runtime["end_time"] - df_runtime["start_time"]

plt.figure(figsize=(10, 6))
sns.boxplot(
    data=df_runtime,
    x="llm_name",
    y="runtime_seconds"
)

# Set log scale for y-axis
plt.yscale("log")

# Customize the plot
plt.xlabel("LLM Model", fontsize=12)
plt.ylabel("Runtime (log10 scale, seconds)", fontsize=12)
plt.title("Example Runtime per LLM Model (Log Scale)", fontsize=14)
plt.xticks(rotation=45)
plt.grid(True, which="both", linestyle="--", linewidth=0.5)
plt.show()
```

We use the log scale for the y-axis to better visualize the runtime differences between the LLMs. The box plot will show the runtime of each LLM model for each example in the dataset. Below is an example of what the plot might look like:
![LLM Runtime](../_static/profiler_runtimes.png)

From the image above, we see that the `mixtral-8x22b-instruct` LLM has the highest runtime, indicating that it takes the longest to complete the workflow. The `phi-3-mini-4k-instruct` LLM has the lowest runtime, ostensibly due to the fact that it does not call tools at all and is the smallest model.
At the log scale, the `mixtral-8x22b-instruct` model take more than 10x longer than most other models.

## Analyzing Token Efficiency
Let us collect one more piece of information from the `standardized_results_all.csv` file to compare the performance of the LLMs. We will look at the total prompt and completion tokens generated by each LLM to determine which LLM is the most efficient in terms of token usage.

```python
import numpy as np

# Aggregate total prompt and completion tokens per example and LLM
df_tokens = df_llm_end.groupby(["example_number", "llm_name"]).agg(
    total_prompt_tokens=("prompt_tokens", "sum"),
    total_completion_tokens=("completion_tokens", "sum")
).reset_index()

# Reshape data for plotting
df_tokens_melted = df_tokens.melt(
    id_vars=["example_number", "llm_name"],
    value_vars=["total_prompt_tokens", "total_completion_tokens"],
    var_name="Token Type",
    value_name="Token Count"
)

plt.figure(figsize=(12, 6))
sns.barplot(
    data=df_tokens_melted,
    x="llm_name",
    y="Token Count",
    hue="Token Type",
    ci=None
)

# Set log scale for y-axis
plt.yscale("log")

# Customize the plot
plt.xlabel("LLM Model", fontsize=12)
plt.ylabel("Total Token Count per Example (log10 scale)", fontsize=12)
plt.title("Total Prompt and Completion Tokens per Example by LLM Model (Log Scale)", fontsize=14)
plt.xticks(rotation=45)
plt.legend(title="Token Type")
plt.grid(axis="y", linestyle="--", linewidth=0.5, which="both")
plt.show()
```

The bar plot will show the total prompt and completion tokens generated by each LLM for each example in the dataset. Below is an example of what the plot might look like:
![Token Efficiency](../_static/profiler_token_efficiency.png)

We see that the `llama-3.1-8b-instruct` LLM generates the most tokens, both prompt and completion, indicating that it is the most verbose model. The `phi-3-mini-4k-instruct` LLM generates the fewest tokens, indicating that it is the most efficient model in terms of token usage. `llama-3.1-70b-instruct` and `mixtral-8x22b-instruct` are in the middle in terms of token usage, indicating that they may be reasonable choices.

## Understanding Where the Models Spend Time
We can also analyze the bottleneck analysis provided by the profiler to understand where the LLMs spend most of their time. This can help us identify potential bottlenecks in the workflow and optimize the LLMs accordingly.
For example, we can explore why the `mixtral-8x22b-instruct` model has such a long runtime!. To do so, we can directly visualize the `Gantt charts` produced by the `nested stack analysis` in the `bottleneck_analysis` section of the profiler configuration for each model.
Let's look at one below:

![ time chart one ](../_static/mixtral_gantt_chart.png)

It is interesting here that most of the latency comes from the initial invocation of the agent, wherein it reasons and decides on whether to call a tool. Subsequent steps take much less time in seconds, which is the axis of the `Gantt` chart.
On the other hand, the `llama-3.3-70b-instruct` model has a much more balanced distribution of time across the workflow, indicating that it is more efficient in terms of time usage for a model of roughly equivalent size.

![ time chart two ](../_static/llama3_70b_gantt_chart.png)

However, the `llama-3.3-70b-instruct` model fails to call the appropriate tool in the `email_phishing_analyzer` function, which may cause its responses to be less relevant our grounded. Let us explore those metrics below.

## Analyzing RAGAS Metrics
Finally, we can analyze the RAGAS metrics provided by the profiler to evaluate the performance of the LLMs. We can use the output of the `eval` harness to compare the accuracy, groundedness, and relevance of the responses generated by each LLM.

Below is plot visualizing the accuracy, groundedness, and relevance of the responses generated by each LLM:
![RAGAS Metrics](../_static/profiler_ragas_metrics.png)

Clearly, the `phi-3-*` models are not good fits given their `groundedness` and `relevance` are both 0, so we will not use them for this workflow. The `llama-3.3-70b-instruct` model has the highest `accuracy` also did not have high `groundedness` and `relevance`, so we will not use it either.
The `mixtral-8x22b-instruct` model has a much higher runtime than the `llama-3.1-8b-instruct` model, so we will not use it either. The `llama-3.1-8b-instruct` model has the highest `groundedness` and `relevance`, so we will use it for our workflow.

## Conclusion
In this guide, we walked through an end-to-end example of how to profile an AgentIQ workflow using the AgentIQ profiler. We defined a simple workflow, configured the profiler, ran the profiler, and analyzed the profiling results to compare the performance of various LLMs and evaluate the workflow's efficiency. We used the collected telemetry data to identify which LLM we think is the best fit for our workflow. We hope this guide has given you a good understanding of how to profile an AgentIQ workflow and analyze the results to make informed decisions about your workflow configuration.

If you'd like to optimize further, we recommend exploring the `workflow_profiling_report.txt` file that was also created by the profiler. That has detailed information about workflow bottlenecks, and latency at various `concurrencies`, which can be helpful metrics when identifying performance issues in your workflow.

Commit message:

Rename AgentIQ to Agent Intelligence Toolkit (#160)
Name Usage:
* Full Name: Agent Intelligence Toolkit
  - Use for document titles, webpage headers, any public descriptions
* Short Name: AIQ Toolkit
  - Use after Agent Intelligence Toolkit has been referenced in blogs, docs, and other public locations
* Uppercase No Space: AIQToolkit
  - Use for situations where capitalization will be preserved like the Github URL, directories, etc.
* Lowercase No Space: aiqtoolkit
  - Use for URLs, pypi package, any place where spaces are not allowed and casing is not preserved.

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/AgentIQ/blob/develop/docs/source/advanced/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - David Gardner (https://github.com/dagardner-nv)

Approvers:
  - Anuradha Karuppiah (https://github.com/AnuradhaKaruppiah)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/pull/160

docs/source/guides/profiler.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2024-2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Profiling an NVIDIA Agent Intelligence Toolkit Workflow
In this guide, we will walk you through an end-to-end example of how to profile an AIQ Toolkit workflow using the AIQ Toolkit profiler, which is part of the library's evaluation harness.
We will begin by creating a workflow to profile, explore some of the configuration options of the profiler, and then perform an in-depth analysis of the profiling results.

## Prerequisites

The AIQ Toolkit profiler requires additional dependencies not installed by default.

Install these dependencies by running the following command:
```bash
uv pip install -e .[profiling]
```

Before you begin, ensure you have read the concepts of [AIQ Toolkit Profiler](../concepts/profiler.md) and have a basic understanding of how to build and run an AIQ Toolkit workflow. Also ensure you have read the [AIQ Toolkit Evaluation Concepts](../concepts/evaluate.md) guide.

## Defining a Workflow
For this guide, we will use a simple, but useful, workflow that analyzes the body of a given email to determine if it is a Phishing email. We will define a single tool that takes an email body as input and returns a response on
whether the email is a Phishing email or not. We will then add that tool as the only tool available to the `tool_calling` agent pre-built in the AIQ Toolkit library. Below is the implementation of the phishing tool. The source code for this example can be found at `examples/email_phishing_analyzer/`.

## Configuring the Workflow
The configuration file for the workflow is as follows. Here, pay close attention to how the `profiler` and `eval` sections are configured.

```yaml
## CONFIGURATION OPTIONS OMITTED HERE FOR BREVITY

functions:
  email_phishing_analyzer:
    _type: email_phishing_analyzer
    llm: nim_llm
    prompt: |
      Examine the following email content and determine if it exhibits signs of malicious intent. Look for any
        suspicious signals that may indicate phishing, such as requests for personal information or suspicious tone.

      Email content:
      {body}

      Return your findings as a JSON object with these fields:

      - is_likely_phishing: (boolean) true if phishing is suspected
      - explanation: (string) detailed explanation of your reasoning


## OTHER CONFIGURATION OPTIONS OMITTED FOR BREVITY

eval:
  general:
    output_dir: ./.tmp/eval/examples/email_phishing_analyzer/test_models/llama-3.1-8b-instruct
    verbose: true
    dataset:
        _type: csv
        file_path: examples/email_phishing_analyzer/data/smaller_test.csv
        id_key: "subject"
        structure:
          question_key: body
          answer_key: label

    profiler:
        token_uniqueness_forecast: true
        workflow_runtime_forecast: true
        compute_llm_metrics: true
        csv_exclude_io_text: true
        prompt_caching_prefixes:
          enable: true
          min_frequency: 0.1
        bottleneck_analysis:
          # Can also be simple_stack
          enable_nested_stack: true
        concurrency_spike_analysis:
          enable: true
          spike_threshold: 7

```

Diving deeper into the `eval` section, we see that the `profiler` section is configured with the following options:
- `token_uniqueness_forecast`: Compute inter query token uniqueness
- `workflow_runtime_forecast`: Compute expected workflow runtime
- `compute_llm_metrics`: Compute inference optimization metrics
- `csv_exclude_io_text`: Avoid dumping large text into the output CSV (helpful to not break structure)
- `prompt_caching_prefixes`: Identify common prompt prefixes
- `bottleneck_analysis`: Enable bottleneck analysis
- `concurrency_spike_analysis`: Enable concurrency spike analysis. Set the `spike_threshold` to 7, meaning that any concurrency spike above 7 will be raised to the user specifically.

We also we see the `evaluators` section, which includes the following metrics:
- `rag_accuracy`: Evaluates the accuracy of the answer generated by the workflow against the expected answer or ground truth.
- `rag_groundedness`: Evaluates the `groundedness` of the response generated by the workflow based on the context retrieved by the workflow.
- `rag_relevance`: Evaluates the relevance of the context retrieved by the workflow against the question.

## Running the Profiler
To run the profiler, simply run the `aiq eval` command with the workflow configuration file. The profiler will collect usage statistics and store them in the output directory specified in the configuration file.


```bash
aiq eval --config_file examples/email_phishing_analyzer/configs/<config_file>.yml
```

Among other files, this will produce a `standardized_results_all.csv` file in the `output_dir` specified in the configuration file. This file will contain the profiling results of the workflow that we will use for the rest of the analysis.

## Analyzing the Profiling Results
The remainder of this guide will demonstrate how to perform a simple analysis of the profiling results using the `standardized_results_all.csv` file to compare the performance of various LLMs and evaluate the workflow's efficiency.
Ultimately, we will use the collected telemetry data to identify which LLM we think is the best fit for our workflow.

Particularly, we evaluate the following models:
- `meta-llama-3.1-8b-instruct`
- `meta-llama-3.1-70b-instruct`
- `mixtral-8x22b-instruct`
- `phi-3-medium-4k-instruct`
- `phi-3-mini-4k-instruct`

We run evaluation of the workflow on a small dataset of emails and compare the performance of the LLMs based on the metrics provided by the profiler. Once we run `aiq eval`, we can analyze the `standardized_results_all.csv` file to compare the performance of the LLMs.

Henceforth, we assume that you have run the `aiq eval` command and have the `standardized_results_all.csv` file in the `output_dir` specified in the configuration file. Please also take a moment to create a CSV file containing the concatenated results of the LLMs you wish to compare.

## Plotting Prompt vs Completion Tokens for LLMs
One of the first things we can do is to plot the prompt vs completion tokens for each LLM. This will give us an idea of how the LLMs are performing in terms of token usage. We can use the `standardized_results_all.csv` file to plot this data.

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import pandas as pd
import seaborn as sns

df = pd.read_csv("standardized_results_all.csv")
# Filter LLM_END events
df_llm_end = df[df["event_type"] == "LLM_END"]

# Plot scatter plot
plt.figure(figsize=(10, 6))
sns.scatterplot(
    data=df_llm_end,
    x="prompt_tokens",
    y="completion_tokens",
    hue="llm_name",
    style="function_name",
    s=100  # Marker size
)

# Customize the plot
plt.xlabel("Prompt Tokens", fontsize=12)
plt.ylabel("Completion Tokens", fontsize=12)
plt.title("Prompt Tokens vs Completion Tokens by LLM and Function", fontsize=14)
plt.legend(title="LLM / Function", bbox_to_anchor=(1.05, 1), loc="upper left")
plt.grid(True)
plt.show()
```

The plot will show the prompt tokens on the x-axis and the completion tokens on the y-axis. Each point represents a completion event by an LLM for a given prompt. The color of the point represents the LLM used, and the style represents the function used.
Below is an example of what the plot might look like:

![Prompt vs Completion Tokens](../_static/profiler_token_scatter.png)

We see from the image above that the `meta-llama-3.1-8b-instruct` LLM has the highest prompt token usage and takes many more turns than any other model, perhaps indicating that it fails at tool calling. We also note that none of the `phi-3-*` models succeed at any tool calling, as they have no completion tokens in the
`email_phishing_analyzer` function. This could be due to the fact that the `phi-3-*` models are not well-suited for the task at hand.

## Analyzing Workflow Runtimes
Another important metric to analyze is the workflow runtime. We can use the `standardized_results_all.csv` file to plot the workflow runtime for each LLM. This will give us an idea of how long each LLM takes to complete the workflow and compare if some LLMs are more efficient than others.

```python
df["event_timestamp"] = pd.to_numeric(df["event_timestamp"])

# Filter only LLM_START and LLM_END events
df_llm = df[df["event_type"].isin(["LLM_START", "LLM_END"])]

# Group by example_number and llm_name to get first LLM_START and last LLM_END timestamps
df_runtime = df_llm.groupby(["example_number", "llm_name"]).agg(
    start_time=("event_timestamp", "min"),
    end_time=("event_timestamp", "max")
).reset_index()

# Compute runtime
df_runtime["runtime_seconds"] = df_runtime["end_time"] - df_runtime["start_time"]

plt.figure(figsize=(10, 6))
sns.boxplot(
    data=df_runtime,
    x="llm_name",
    y="runtime_seconds"
)

# Set log scale for y-axis
plt.yscale("log")

# Customize the plot
plt.xlabel("LLM Model", fontsize=12)
plt.ylabel("Runtime (log10 scale, seconds)", fontsize=12)
plt.title("Example Runtime per LLM Model (Log Scale)", fontsize=14)
plt.xticks(rotation=45)
plt.grid(True, which="both", linestyle="--", linewidth=0.5)
plt.show()
```

We use the log scale for the y-axis to better visualize the runtime differences between the LLMs. The box plot will show the runtime of each LLM model for each example in the dataset. Below is an example of what the plot might look like:
![LLM Runtime](../_static/profiler_runtimes.png)

From the image above, we see that the `mixtral-8x22b-instruct` LLM has the highest runtime, indicating that it takes the longest to complete the workflow. The `phi-3-mini-4k-instruct` LLM has the lowest runtime, ostensibly due to the fact that it does not call tools at all and is the smallest model.
At the log scale, the `mixtral-8x22b-instruct` model take more than 10x longer than most other models.

## Analyzing Token Efficiency
Let us collect one more piece of information from the `standardized_results_all.csv` file to compare the performance of the LLMs. We will look at the total prompt and completion tokens generated by each LLM to determine which LLM is the most efficient in terms of token usage.

```python
import numpy as np

# Aggregate total prompt and completion tokens per example and LLM
df_tokens = df_llm_end.groupby(["example_number", "llm_name"]).agg(
    total_prompt_tokens=("prompt_tokens", "sum"),
    total_completion_tokens=("completion_tokens", "sum")
).reset_index()

# Reshape data for plotting
df_tokens_melted = df_tokens.melt(
    id_vars=["example_number", "llm_name"],
    value_vars=["total_prompt_tokens", "total_completion_tokens"],
    var_name="Token Type",
    value_name="Token Count"
)

plt.figure(figsize=(12, 6))
sns.barplot(
    data=df_tokens_melted,
    x="llm_name",
    y="Token Count",
    hue="Token Type",
    ci=None
)

# Set log scale for y-axis
plt.yscale("log")

# Customize the plot
plt.xlabel("LLM Model", fontsize=12)
plt.ylabel("Total Token Count per Example (log10 scale)", fontsize=12)
plt.title("Total Prompt and Completion Tokens per Example by LLM Model (Log Scale)", fontsize=14)
plt.xticks(rotation=45)
plt.legend(title="Token Type")
plt.grid(axis="y", linestyle="--", linewidth=0.5, which="both")
plt.show()
```

The bar plot will show the total prompt and completion tokens generated by each LLM for each example in the dataset. Below is an example of what the plot might look like:
![Token Efficiency](../_static/profiler_token_efficiency.png)

We see that the `llama-3.1-8b-instruct` LLM generates the most tokens, both prompt and completion, indicating that it is the most verbose model. The `phi-3-mini-4k-instruct` LLM generates the fewest tokens, indicating that it is the most efficient model in terms of token usage. `llama-3.1-70b-instruct` and `mixtral-8x22b-instruct` are in the middle in terms of token usage, indicating that they may be reasonable choices.

## Understanding Where the Models Spend Time
We can also analyze the bottleneck analysis provided by the profiler to understand where the LLMs spend most of their time. This can help us identify potential bottlenecks in the workflow and optimize the LLMs accordingly.
For example, we can explore why the `mixtral-8x22b-instruct` model has such a long runtime!. To do so, we can directly visualize the `Gantt charts` produced by the `nested stack analysis` in the `bottleneck_analysis` section of the profiler configuration for each model.
Let's look at one below:

![ time chart one ](../_static/mixtral_gantt_chart.png)

It is interesting here that most of the latency comes from the initial invocation of the agent, wherein it reasons and decides on whether to call a tool. Subsequent steps take much less time in seconds, which is the axis of the `Gantt` chart.
On the other hand, the `llama-3.3-70b-instruct` model has a much more balanced distribution of time across the workflow, indicating that it is more efficient in terms of time usage for a model of roughly equivalent size.

![ time chart two ](../_static/llama3_70b_gantt_chart.png)

However, the `llama-3.3-70b-instruct` model fails to call the appropriate tool in the `email_phishing_analyzer` function, which may cause its responses to be less relevant our grounded. Let us explore those metrics below.

## Analyzing RAGAS Metrics
Finally, we can analyze the RAGAS metrics provided by the profiler to evaluate the performance of the LLMs. We can use the output of the `eval` harness to compare the accuracy, groundedness, and relevance of the responses generated by each LLM.

Below is plot visualizing the accuracy, groundedness, and relevance of the responses generated by each LLM:
![RAGAS Metrics](../_static/profiler_ragas_metrics.png)

Clearly, the `phi-3-*` models are not good fits given their `groundedness` and `relevance` are both 0, so we will not use them for this workflow. The `llama-3.3-70b-instruct` model has the highest `accuracy` also did not have high `groundedness` and `relevance`, so we will not use it either.
The `mixtral-8x22b-instruct` model has a much higher runtime than the `llama-3.1-8b-instruct` model, so we will not use it either. The `llama-3.1-8b-instruct` model has the highest `groundedness` and `relevance`, so we will use it for our workflow.

## Conclusion
In this guide, we walked through an end-to-end example of how to profile an AIQ Toolkit workflow using the AIQ Toolkit profiler. We defined a simple workflow, configured the profiler, ran the profiler, and analyzed the profiling results to compare the performance of various LLMs and evaluate the workflow's efficiency. We used the collected telemetry data to identify which LLM we think is the best fit for our workflow. We hope this guide has given you a good understanding of how to profile an AIQ Toolkit workflow and analyze the results to make informed decisions about your workflow configuration.

If you'd like to optimize further, we recommend exploring the `workflow_profiling_report.txt` file that was also created by the profiler. That has detailed information about workflow bottlenecks, and latency at various `concurrencies`, which can be helpful metrics when identifying performance issues in your workflow.
