docs/source/concepts/memory.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# NVIDIA AgentIQ Memory Module

AgentIQ's Memory subsystem is designed to store and retrieve a user's conversation history, preferences, and other "long-term memory." This is especially useful for building stateful LLM-based applications that recall user-specific data or interactions across multiple steps.

This document explains the **AgentIQ Memory Module** in detail:
- How it is structured internally (interfaces, data models, and configuration).
- How developers can **register** a new memory module.
- How users can **bring a custom memory client** and wire it up in their AgentIQ workflows.
- An **example** of usage from the provided `aiq_agent_memory` plugin code.

> **Note**: This documentation presumes familiarity with AgentIQ's plugin architecture, the concept of "function registration" via `@register_function`, and how we define tool/workflow configurations in the AgentIQ config.

### Key Components

1. **Memory Data Models**
   - **{py:class}`~aiq.data_models.memory.MemoryBaseConfig`**: A Pydantic base class that all memory config classes must extend. This is used for specifying memory registration in the AgentIQ config file.
   - **{py:class}`~aiq.data_models.memory.MemoryBaseConfigT`**: A generic type alias for memory config classes.

2. **Memory Interfaces**
   - **{py:class}`~aiq.memory.interfaces.MemoryEditor`** (abstract interface): The low-level API for adding, searching, and removing memory items.
   - **{py:class}`~aiq.memory.interfaces.MemoryReader`** and **{py:class}`~aiq.memory.interfaces.MemoryWriter`** (abstract classes): Provide structured read/write logic on top of the `MemoryEditor`.
   - **{py:class}`~aiq.memory.interfaces.MemoryManager`** (abstract interface): Manages higher-level memory operations like summarization or reflection if needed.

3. **Memory Models**
   - **{py:class}`~aiq.memory.models.MemoryItem`**: The main object representing a piece of memory. It includes:
     ```python
     conversation: list[dict[str, str]]  # user/assistant messages
     tags: list[str] = []
     metadata: dict[str, Any]
     user_id: str
     memory: str | None  # optional textual memory
     ```
   - Helper models for search or deletion input: **{py:class}`~aiq.memory.models.SearchMemoryInput`**, **{py:class}`~aiq.memory.models.DeleteMemoryInput`**.

---

## Registering a Memory Module

In the AgentIQ system, anything that extends {py:class}`~aiq.data_models.memory.MemoryBaseConfig` and is declared with a `name="some_memory"` can be discovered as a *Memory type* by AgentIQ's global type registry. This allows you to define a custom memory class to handle your own backends (Redis, custom database, a vector store, etc.). Then your memory class can be selected in the AgentIQ config YAML via `_type: <your memory type>`.

### Basic Steps

1. **Create a config Class** that extends {py:class}`~aiq.data_models.memory.MemoryBaseConfig`:
   ```python
   from aiq.data_models.memory import MemoryBaseConfig

   class MyCustomMemoryConfig(MemoryBaseConfig, name="my_custom_memory"):
       # You can define any fields you want. For example:
       connection_url: str
       api_key: str
   ```
   > **Note**: The `name="my_custom_memory"` ensures that AgentIQ can recognize it when the user places `_type: my_custom_memory` in the memory config.

2. **Implement a {py:class}`~aiq.memory.interfaces.MemoryEditor`** that uses your backend**:
   ```python
   from aiq.memory.interfaces import MemoryEditor, MemoryItem

   class MyCustomMemoryEditor(MemoryEditor):
       def __init__(self, config: MyCustomMemoryConfig):
           self._api_key = config.api_key
           self._conn_url = config.connection_url
           # Possibly set up connections here

       async def add_items(self, items: list[MemoryItem]) -> None:
           # Insert into your custom DB or vector store
           ...

       async def search(self, query: str, top_k: int = 5, **kwargs) -> list[MemoryItem]:
           # Perform your query in the DB or vector store
           ...

       async def remove_items(self, **kwargs) -> None:
           # Implement your deletion logic
           ...
   ```
3. **Tell AgentIQ how to build your MemoryEditor**. Typically, you do this by hooking into the builder system so that when `builder.get_memory_client("my_custom_memory")` is called, it returns an instance of `MyCustomMemoryEditor`.
   - For example, you might define a `@register_memory` or do it manually with the global type registry. (The standard pattern is to see how `mem0_memory` or `zep` memory is integrated in the code under `aiq/memory/<provider>`.)

4. **Use in config**: Now in your AgentIQ config, you can do something like:
   ```yaml
   memory:
     my_store:
       _type: my_custom_memory
       connection_url: "http://localhost:1234"
       api_key: "some-secret"
   ...
   ```

> The user can then reference `my_store` in their function or workflow config (for example, in a memory-based tool).

---

## Bringing Your Own Memory Client Implementation

A typical pattern is:
- You define a *config class* that extends {py:class}`~aiq.data_models.memory.MemoryBaseConfig` (giving it a unique `_type` / name).
- You define the actual *runtime logic* in a "Memory Editor" or "Memory Client" class that implements {py:class}`~aiq.memory.interfaces.MemoryEditor`.
- You connect them together (for example, by implementing a small factory function or a method in the builder that says: "Given `MyCustomMemoryConfig`, return `MyCustomMemoryEditor(config)`").

### Example: Minimal Skeleton

```python
# my_custom_memory_config.py
from aiq.data_models.memory import MemoryBaseConfig

class MyCustomMemoryConfig(MemoryBaseConfig, name="my_custom_memory"):
    url: str
    token: str

# my_custom_memory_editor.py
from aiq.memory.interfaces import MemoryEditor, MemoryItem

class MyCustomMemoryEditor(MemoryEditor):
    def __init__(self, cfg: MyCustomMemoryConfig):
        self._url = cfg.url
        self._token = cfg.token

    async def add_items(self, items: list[MemoryItem]) -> None:
        # ...
        pass

    async def search(self, query: str, top_k: int = 5, **kwargs) -> list[MemoryItem]:
        # ...
        pass

    async def remove_items(self, **kwargs) -> None:
        # ...
        pass
```

Then either:
- Write a small plugin method that `@register_memory` or `@register_function` with `framework_wrappers`, or
- Add a snippet to your plugin's `__init__.py` that calls the AgentIQ TypeRegistry, passing your config.

---

## Using Memory in a Workflow

**At runtime**, you typically see code like:

```python
memory_client = builder.get_memory_client(<memory_config_name>)
await memory_client.add_items([MemoryItem(...), ...])
```

or

```python
memories = await memory_client.search(query="What did user prefer last time?", top_k=3)
```

**Inside Tools**: Tools that read or write memory simply call the memory client. For example:

```python
from aiq.memory.models import MemoryItem
from langchain_core.tools import ToolException

async def add_memory_tool_action(item: MemoryItem, memory_name: str):
    memory_client = builder.get_memory_client(memory_name)
    try:
        await memory_client.add_items([item])
        return "Memory added successfully"
    except Exception as e:
        raise ToolException(f"Error adding memory: {e}")
```

### Example `Config` in `configs/config.yml`

Here is an example snippet (from the `aiq_agent_memory/configs/config.yml` in the source):

```yaml
memory:
  saas_memory:
    _type: mem0_memory

functions:
  add_memory:
    _type: add_memory
    memory: saas_memory
  get_memory:
    _type: get_memory
    memory: saas_memory

workflow:
  _type: agent_memory
  tool_names:
    - add_memory
    - get_memory
  llm: nim_llm
```

Explanation:

- We define a memory entry named `saas_memory` with `_type: mem0_memory`. (That's using a built-in memory implementation.)
- Then we define two "functions" (tools) that reference `saas_memory`: `add_memory` and `get_memory`.
- Finally, the `agent_memory` workflow references these two tool names.

---

## Example: `aiq_agent_memory` Workflow

Below is an **excerpt** of how the `agent_memory_workflow` is registered:

```python
@register_function(config_type=AgentMemoryWorkflowConfig, framework_wrappers=[LLMFrameworkEnum.LANGCHAIN])
async def agent_memory_workflow(config: AgentMemoryWorkflowConfig, builder: Builder):

    # 1) Build tool references from config
    tools = builder.get_tools(tool_names=config.tool_names, wrapper_type=LLMFrameworkEnum.LANGCHAIN)

    # 2) Grab the LLM reference
    llm_n = await builder.get_llm(llm_name=config.llm, wrapper_type=LLMFrameworkEnum.LANGCHAIN)

    # 3) Bind tools to the LLM
    llm_n_tools = llm_n.bind_tools(tools, parallel_tool_calls=True)

    # Some system prompt
    sys_prompt_calc = ("You are a helpful assistant...")

    # 4) Define a node that calls the LLM with the system message and user messages
    def mem_assistant(state: MessagesState):
        sys_msg = SystemMessage(content=sys_prompt_calc)
        return {"messages": [llm_n_tools.invoke([sys_msg] + state["messages"])]}

    # 5) Build a small state machine with edges to "tools" if needed
    # omitted for brevity...

    # 6) The core function that gets invoked
    async def _response_fn(input_message: str) -> str:
        ...
        # Here you might see the memory prefix get appended:
        # memory code references or storing the user_id.
        # Then run the LLM through agent_executor
        ...
        return output["messages"][-1].content
```

You can see in the config, the `get_memory` or `add_memory` tools are configured. Those tools each do something like:

```python
# get_memory_tool.py
memory_editor = builder.get_memory_client(config.memory)
memories = await memory_editor.search(query=search_input.query, top_k=search_input.top_k)
```

Hence, the workflow can store or retrieve user memory as it processes each message.

---

## Putting It All Together

To **bring your own memory**:

1. **Implement** a custom {py:class}`~aiq.data_models.memory.MemoryBaseConfig` (with a unique `_type`).
2. **Implement** a custom {py:class}`~aiq.memory.interfaces.MemoryEditor` that can handle `add_items`, `search`, `remove_items` calls.
3. **Register** your config class so that the AgentIQ type registry is aware of `_type: <your memory>`.
4. In your `.yml` config, specify:
   ```yaml
   memory:
     user_store:
       _type: <your memory>
       # any other fields your config requires
   ```
5. Use `builder.get_memory_client("user_store")` to retrieve an instance of your memory in your code or tools.

---

## Summary

- The **Memory** module in AgentIQ revolves around the {py:class}`~aiq.memory.interfaces.MemoryEditor` interface and {py:class}`~aiq.memory.models.MemoryItem` model.
- **Configuration** is done via a subclass of {py:class}`~aiq.data_models.memory.MemoryBaseConfig` that is *discriminated* by the `_type` field in the YAML config.
- **Registration** can be as simple as adding `name="my_custom_memory"` to your config class and letting AgentIQ discover it.
- Tools and workflows then seamlessly **read/write** user memory by calling `builder.get_memory_client(...)`.

This modular design allows any developer to **plug in** a new memory backend—like `Zep`, a custom embedding store, or even a simple dictionary-based store—by following these steps. Once integrated, your **agent** (or tools) will treat it just like any other memory in the system.

---

**That's it!** You now know how to create, register, and use a **custom memory client** in AgentIQ. Feel free to explore the existing memory clients in the `aiq/memory` directory for reference and see how they are integrated into the overall framework.

Commit message:

Rename AgentIQ to Agent Intelligence Toolkit (#160)
Name Usage:
* Full Name: Agent Intelligence Toolkit
  - Use for document titles, webpage headers, any public descriptions
* Short Name: AIQ Toolkit
  - Use after Agent Intelligence Toolkit has been referenced in blogs, docs, and other public locations
* Uppercase No Space: AIQToolkit
  - Use for situations where capitalization will be preserved like the Github URL, directories, etc.
* Lowercase No Space: aiqtoolkit
  - Use for URLs, pypi package, any place where spaces are not allowed and casing is not preserved.

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/AgentIQ/blob/develop/docs/source/advanced/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - David Gardner (https://github.com/dagardner-nv)

Approvers:
  - Anuradha Karuppiah (https://github.com/AnuradhaKaruppiah)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/pull/160

docs/source/concepts/memory.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# NVIDIA Agent Intelligence Toolkit Memory Module

The AIQ Toolkit Memory subsystem is designed to store and retrieve a user's conversation history, preferences, and other "long-term memory." This is especially useful for building stateful LLM-based applications that recall user-specific data or interactions across multiple steps.

This document explains the **AIQ Toolkit Memory Module** in detail:
- How it is structured internally (interfaces, data models, and configuration).
- How developers can **register** a new memory module.
- How users can **bring a custom memory client** and wire it up in their AIQ Toolkit workflows.
- An **example** of usage from the provided `aiq_agent_memory` plugin code.

> **Note**: This documentation presumes familiarity with the AIQ Toolkit plugin architecture, the concept of "function registration" via `@register_function`, and how we define tool/workflow configurations in the AIQ Toolkit config.

### Key Components

1. **Memory Data Models**
   - **{py:class}`~aiq.data_models.memory.MemoryBaseConfig`**: A Pydantic base class that all memory config classes must extend. This is used for specifying memory registration in the AIQ Toolkit config file.
   - **{py:class}`~aiq.data_models.memory.MemoryBaseConfigT`**: A generic type alias for memory config classes.

2. **Memory Interfaces**
   - **{py:class}`~aiq.memory.interfaces.MemoryEditor`** (abstract interface): The low-level API for adding, searching, and removing memory items.
   - **{py:class}`~aiq.memory.interfaces.MemoryReader`** and **{py:class}`~aiq.memory.interfaces.MemoryWriter`** (abstract classes): Provide structured read/write logic on top of the `MemoryEditor`.
   - **{py:class}`~aiq.memory.interfaces.MemoryManager`** (abstract interface): Manages higher-level memory operations like summarization or reflection if needed.

3. **Memory Models**
   - **{py:class}`~aiq.memory.models.MemoryItem`**: The main object representing a piece of memory. It includes:
     ```python
     conversation: list[dict[str, str]]  # user/assistant messages
     tags: list[str] = []
     metadata: dict[str, Any]
     user_id: str
     memory: str | None  # optional textual memory
     ```
   - Helper models for search or deletion input: **{py:class}`~aiq.memory.models.SearchMemoryInput`**, **{py:class}`~aiq.memory.models.DeleteMemoryInput`**.

---

## Registering a Memory Module

In the AIQ Toolkit system, anything that extends {py:class}`~aiq.data_models.memory.MemoryBaseConfig` and is declared with a `name="some_memory"` can be discovered as a *Memory type* by the AIQ Toolkit global type registry. This allows you to define a custom memory class to handle your own backends (Redis, custom database, a vector store, etc.). Then your memory class can be selected in the AIQ Toolkit config YAML via `_type: <your memory type>`.

### Basic Steps

1. **Create a config Class** that extends {py:class}`~aiq.data_models.memory.MemoryBaseConfig`:
   ```python
   from aiq.data_models.memory import MemoryBaseConfig

   class MyCustomMemoryConfig(MemoryBaseConfig, name="my_custom_memory"):
       # You can define any fields you want. For example:
       connection_url: str
       api_key: str
   ```
   > **Note**: The `name="my_custom_memory"` ensures that AIQ Toolkit can recognize it when the user places `_type: my_custom_memory` in the memory config.

2. **Implement a {py:class}`~aiq.memory.interfaces.MemoryEditor`** that uses your backend**:
   ```python
   from aiq.memory.interfaces import MemoryEditor, MemoryItem

   class MyCustomMemoryEditor(MemoryEditor):
       def __init__(self, config: MyCustomMemoryConfig):
           self._api_key = config.api_key
           self._conn_url = config.connection_url
           # Possibly set up connections here

       async def add_items(self, items: list[MemoryItem]) -> None:
           # Insert into your custom DB or vector store
           ...

       async def search(self, query: str, top_k: int = 5, **kwargs) -> list[MemoryItem]:
           # Perform your query in the DB or vector store
           ...

       async def remove_items(self, **kwargs) -> None:
           # Implement your deletion logic
           ...
   ```
3. **Tell AIQ Toolkit how to build your MemoryEditor**. Typically, you do this by hooking into the builder system so that when `builder.get_memory_client("my_custom_memory")` is called, it returns an instance of `MyCustomMemoryEditor`.
   - For example, you might define a `@register_memory` or do it manually with the global type registry. (The standard pattern is to see how `mem0_memory` or `zep` memory is integrated in the code under `aiq/memory/<provider>`.)

4. **Use in config**: Now in your AIQ Toolkit config, you can do something like:
   ```yaml
   memory:
     my_store:
       _type: my_custom_memory
       connection_url: "http://localhost:1234"
       api_key: "some-secret"
   ...
   ```

> The user can then reference `my_store` in their function or workflow config (for example, in a memory-based tool).

---

## Bringing Your Own Memory Client Implementation

A typical pattern is:
- You define a *config class* that extends {py:class}`~aiq.data_models.memory.MemoryBaseConfig` (giving it a unique `_type` / name).
- You define the actual *runtime logic* in a "Memory Editor" or "Memory Client" class that implements {py:class}`~aiq.memory.interfaces.MemoryEditor`.
- You connect them together (for example, by implementing a small factory function or a method in the builder that says: "Given `MyCustomMemoryConfig`, return `MyCustomMemoryEditor(config)`").

### Example: Minimal Skeleton

```python
# my_custom_memory_config.py
from aiq.data_models.memory import MemoryBaseConfig

class MyCustomMemoryConfig(MemoryBaseConfig, name="my_custom_memory"):
    url: str
    token: str

# my_custom_memory_editor.py
from aiq.memory.interfaces import MemoryEditor, MemoryItem

class MyCustomMemoryEditor(MemoryEditor):
    def __init__(self, cfg: MyCustomMemoryConfig):
        self._url = cfg.url
        self._token = cfg.token

    async def add_items(self, items: list[MemoryItem]) -> None:
        # ...
        pass

    async def search(self, query: str, top_k: int = 5, **kwargs) -> list[MemoryItem]:
        # ...
        pass

    async def remove_items(self, **kwargs) -> None:
        # ...
        pass
```

Then either:
- Write a small plugin method that `@register_memory` or `@register_function` with `framework_wrappers`, or
- Add a snippet to your plugin's `__init__.py` that calls the AIQ Toolkit TypeRegistry, passing your config.

---

## Using Memory in a Workflow

**At runtime**, you typically see code like:

```python
memory_client = builder.get_memory_client(<memory_config_name>)
await memory_client.add_items([MemoryItem(...), ...])
```

or

```python
memories = await memory_client.search(query="What did user prefer last time?", top_k=3)
```

**Inside Tools**: Tools that read or write memory simply call the memory client. For example:

```python
from aiq.memory.models import MemoryItem
from langchain_core.tools import ToolException

async def add_memory_tool_action(item: MemoryItem, memory_name: str):
    memory_client = builder.get_memory_client(memory_name)
    try:
        await memory_client.add_items([item])
        return "Memory added successfully"
    except Exception as e:
        raise ToolException(f"Error adding memory: {e}")
```

### Example `Config` in `configs/config.yml`

Here is an example snippet (from the `aiq_agent_memory/configs/config.yml` in the source):

```yaml
memory:
  saas_memory:
    _type: mem0_memory

functions:
  add_memory:
    _type: add_memory
    memory: saas_memory
  get_memory:
    _type: get_memory
    memory: saas_memory

workflow:
  _type: agent_memory
  tool_names:
    - add_memory
    - get_memory
  llm: nim_llm
```

Explanation:

- We define a memory entry named `saas_memory` with `_type: mem0_memory`. (That's using a built-in memory implementation.)
- Then we define two "functions" (tools) that reference `saas_memory`: `add_memory` and `get_memory`.
- Finally, the `agent_memory` workflow references these two tool names.

---

## Example: `aiq_agent_memory` Workflow

Below is an **excerpt** of how the `agent_memory_workflow` is registered:

```python
@register_function(config_type=AgentMemoryWorkflowConfig, framework_wrappers=[LLMFrameworkEnum.LANGCHAIN])
async def agent_memory_workflow(config: AgentMemoryWorkflowConfig, builder: Builder):

    # 1) Build tool references from config
    tools = builder.get_tools(tool_names=config.tool_names, wrapper_type=LLMFrameworkEnum.LANGCHAIN)

    # 2) Grab the LLM reference
    llm_n = await builder.get_llm(llm_name=config.llm, wrapper_type=LLMFrameworkEnum.LANGCHAIN)

    # 3) Bind tools to the LLM
    llm_n_tools = llm_n.bind_tools(tools, parallel_tool_calls=True)

    # Some system prompt
    sys_prompt_calc = ("You are a helpful assistant...")

    # 4) Define a node that calls the LLM with the system message and user messages
    def mem_assistant(state: MessagesState):
        sys_msg = SystemMessage(content=sys_prompt_calc)
        return {"messages": [llm_n_tools.invoke([sys_msg] + state["messages"])]}

    # 5) Build a small state machine with edges to "tools" if needed
    # omitted for brevity...

    # 6) The core function that gets invoked
    async def _response_fn(input_message: str) -> str:
        ...
        # Here you might see the memory prefix get appended:
        # memory code references or storing the user_id.
        # Then run the LLM through agent_executor
        ...
        return output["messages"][-1].content
```

You can see in the config, the `get_memory` or `add_memory` tools are configured. Those tools each do something like:

```python
# get_memory_tool.py
memory_editor = builder.get_memory_client(config.memory)
memories = await memory_editor.search(query=search_input.query, top_k=search_input.top_k)
```

Hence, the workflow can store or retrieve user memory as it processes each message.

---

## Putting It All Together

To **bring your own memory**:

1. **Implement** a custom {py:class}`~aiq.data_models.memory.MemoryBaseConfig` (with a unique `_type`).
2. **Implement** a custom {py:class}`~aiq.memory.interfaces.MemoryEditor` that can handle `add_items`, `search`, `remove_items` calls.
3. **Register** your config class so that the AIQ Toolkit type registry is aware of `_type: <your memory>`.
4. In your `.yml` config, specify:
   ```yaml
   memory:
     user_store:
       _type: <your memory>
       # any other fields your config requires
   ```
5. Use `builder.get_memory_client("user_store")` to retrieve an instance of your memory in your code or tools.

---

## Summary

- The **Memory** module in AIQ Toolkit revolves around the {py:class}`~aiq.memory.interfaces.MemoryEditor` interface and {py:class}`~aiq.memory.models.MemoryItem` model.
- **Configuration** is done via a subclass of {py:class}`~aiq.data_models.memory.MemoryBaseConfig` that is *discriminated* by the `_type` field in the YAML config.
- **Registration** can be as simple as adding `name="my_custom_memory"` to your config class and letting AIQ Toolkit discover it.
- Tools and workflows then seamlessly **read/write** user memory by calling `builder.get_memory_client(...)`.

This modular design allows any developer to **plug in** a new memory backend—like `Zep`, a custom embedding store, or even a simple dictionary-based store—by following these steps. Once integrated, your **agent** (or tools) will treat it just like any other memory in the system.

---

**That's it!** You now know how to create, register, and use a **custom memory client** in AIQ Toolkit. Feel free to explore the existing memory clients in the `aiq/memory` directory for reference and see how they are integrated into the overall framework.
