docs/source/concepts/observability.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# NVIDIA AgentIQ Observability

The AgentIQ Observability Module provides support for configurable telemetry setup to do logging tracing and metrics for AgentIQ workflows.
- Enables users to configure telemetry options from a predefined list based on their preferences.
- Listens real-time usage statistics pushed by `IntermediateStepManager`.
- Translates the usage statistics to OpenTelemetry format and push to the configured provider/method. (e.g., phoenix, OTelCollector, console, file)

These features enable AgentIQ developers to test their workflows locally and integrate observability seamlessly.

## Configurable Components

Users can set up telemetry configuration within the workflow configuration file.

### **Logging Configuration**
Users can write logs to:
- **Console** (`console`)
- **Temporary file** (`file`)
- **Both** (by specifying both options)

#### **Configuration Fields**
- **`_type`**: Accepted values → `console`, `file`
- **`level`**: Log level (e.g., `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARN`, `ERROR`)
- **`path`** *(for file logging only)*: File path where logs will be stored.

### **Tracing Configuration**
Users can set up tracing using:
- **Phoenix**
- **Custom providers** *(See registration section below.)*

#### **Configuration Fields**
- **`_type`**: The name of the registered provider.
- **`endpoint`**: The provider’s listening endpoint.
- **`project`**: The associated project name.


Sample Configuration:
```yaml
general:
  telemetry:
    logging:
      console:
        _type: console
        level: WARN
      file:
        _type: file
        path: /tmp/aiq_simple_calculator.log
        level: DEBUG
    tracing:
      phoenix:
        _type: phoenix
        endpoint: http://localhost:6006/v1/traces
        project: simple_calculator
```


### AgentIQ Observability Components

The Observability components `AsyncOtelSpanListener`, leverage the Subject-Observer pattern to subscribe to the `IntermediateStep` event stream pushed by `IntermediateStepManager`. Acting as an asynchronous event listener, `AsyncOtelSpanListener` listens for AgentIQ intermediate step events, collects and efficiently translates them into OpenTelemetry spans, enabling seamless tracing and monitoring.

- **Process events asynchronously** using a dedicated event loop.
- **Transform function execution boundaries** (`FUNCTION_START`, `FUNCTION_END`) and intermediate operations (`LLM_END`, `TOOL_END`) into OpenTelemetry spans.
- **Maintain function ancestry context** using `InvocationNode` objects, ensuring **distributed tracing across nested function calls**, while preserving execution hierarchy.
- **{py:class}`aiq.profiler.decorators`**: Defines decorators that can wrap each workflow or LLM framework context manager to inject usage-collection callbacks.
- **{py:class}`~aiq.profiler.callbacks`**: Directory that implements callback handlers. These handlers track usage statistics (tokens, time, inputs/outputs) and push them to the AgentIQ usage stats queue. AgentIQ profiling supports callback handlers for LangChain, LLama Index, CrewAI, and Semantic Kernel.


### Registering a New Telemetry Provider as a Plugin

AgentIQ allows users to register custom telemetry providers using the `@register_telemetry_exporter` decorator in {py:class}`aiq.observability.register`.

Example:
```bash
class PhoenixTelemetryExporter(TelemetryExporterBaseConfig, name="phoenix"):
    endpoint: str
    project: str


@register_telemetry_exporter(config_type=PhoenixTelemetryExporter)
async def phoenix_telemetry_exporter(config: PhoenixTelemetryExporter, builder: Builder):

    from phoenix.otel import HTTPSpanExporter
    try:
        yield HTTPSpanExporter(endpoint=config.endpoint)
    except ConnectionError as ex:
        logger.warning("Unable to connect to Phoenix at port 6006. Are you sure Phoenix is running?\n %s",
                       ex,
                       exc_info=True)
    except Exception as ex:
        logger.error("Error in Phoenix telemetry Exporter\n %s", ex, exc_info=True)
```

Commit message:

Rename AgentIQ to Agent Intelligence Toolkit (#160)
Name Usage:
* Full Name: Agent Intelligence Toolkit
  - Use for document titles, webpage headers, any public descriptions
* Short Name: AIQ Toolkit
  - Use after Agent Intelligence Toolkit has been referenced in blogs, docs, and other public locations
* Uppercase No Space: AIQToolkit
  - Use for situations where capitalization will be preserved like the Github URL, directories, etc.
* Lowercase No Space: aiqtoolkit
  - Use for URLs, pypi package, any place where spaces are not allowed and casing is not preserved.

## By Submitting this PR I confirm:
- I am familiar with the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/AgentIQ/blob/develop/docs/source/advanced/contributing.md).
- We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  - Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
- When the PR is ready for review, new or existing tests cover these changes.
- When the PR is ready for review, the documentation is up to date with these changes.

Authors:
  - David Gardner (https://github.com/dagardner-nv)

Approvers:
  - Anuradha Karuppiah (https://github.com/AnuradhaKaruppiah)

URL: https://github.com/NVIDIA/AIQToolkit/pull/160

docs/source/concepts/observability.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# NVIDIA Agent Intelligence Toolkit Observability

The AIQ Toolkit Observability Module provides support for configurable telemetry setup to do logging tracing and metrics for AIQ Toolkit workflows.
- Enables users to configure telemetry options from a predefined list based on their preferences.
- Listens real-time usage statistics pushed by `IntermediateStepManager`.
- Translates the usage statistics to OpenTelemetry format and push to the configured provider/method. (e.g., phoenix, OTelCollector, console, file)

These features enable AIQ Toolkit developers to test their workflows locally and integrate observability seamlessly.

## Configurable Components

Users can set up telemetry configuration within the workflow configuration file.

### **Logging Configuration**
Users can write logs to:
- **Console** (`console`)
- **Temporary file** (`file`)
- **Both** (by specifying both options)

#### **Configuration Fields**
- **`_type`**: Accepted values → `console`, `file`
- **`level`**: Log level (e.g., `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARN`, `ERROR`)
- **`path`** *(for file logging only)*: File path where logs will be stored.

### **Tracing Configuration**
Users can set up tracing using:
- **Phoenix**
- **Custom providers** *(See registration section below.)*

#### **Configuration Fields**
- **`_type`**: The name of the registered provider.
- **`endpoint`**: The provider’s listening endpoint.
- **`project`**: The associated project name.


Sample Configuration:
```yaml
general:
  telemetry:
    logging:
      console:
        _type: console
        level: WARN
      file:
        _type: file
        path: /tmp/aiq_simple_calculator.log
        level: DEBUG
    tracing:
      phoenix:
        _type: phoenix
        endpoint: http://localhost:6006/v1/traces
        project: simple_calculator
```


### AIQ Toolkit Observability Components

The Observability components `AsyncOtelSpanListener`, leverage the Subject-Observer pattern to subscribe to the `IntermediateStep` event stream pushed by `IntermediateStepManager`. Acting as an asynchronous event listener, `AsyncOtelSpanListener` listens for AIQ Toolkit intermediate step events, collects and efficiently translates them into OpenTelemetry spans, enabling seamless tracing and monitoring.

- **Process events asynchronously** using a dedicated event loop.
- **Transform function execution boundaries** (`FUNCTION_START`, `FUNCTION_END`) and intermediate operations (`LLM_END`, `TOOL_END`) into OpenTelemetry spans.
- **Maintain function ancestry context** using `InvocationNode` objects, ensuring **distributed tracing across nested function calls**, while preserving execution hierarchy.
- **{py:class}`aiq.profiler.decorators`**: Defines decorators that can wrap each workflow or LLM framework context manager to inject usage-collection callbacks.
- **{py:class}`~aiq.profiler.callbacks`**: Directory that implements callback handlers. These handlers track usage statistics (tokens, time, inputs/outputs) and push them to the AIQ Toolkit usage stats queue. AIQ Toolkit profiling supports callback handlers for LangChain, LLama Index, CrewAI, and Semantic Kernel.


### Registering a New Telemetry Provider as a Plugin

AIQ Toolkit allows users to register custom telemetry providers using the `@register_telemetry_exporter` decorator in {py:class}`aiq.observability.register`.

Example:
```bash
class PhoenixTelemetryExporter(TelemetryExporterBaseConfig, name="phoenix"):
    endpoint: str
    project: str


@register_telemetry_exporter(config_type=PhoenixTelemetryExporter)
async def phoenix_telemetry_exporter(config: PhoenixTelemetryExporter, builder: Builder):

    from phoenix.otel import HTTPSpanExporter
    try:
        yield HTTPSpanExporter(endpoint=config.endpoint)
    except ConnectionError as ex:
        logger.warning("Unable to connect to Phoenix at port 6006. Are you sure Phoenix is running?\n %s",
                       ex,
                       exc_info=True)
    except Exception as ex:
        logger.error("Error in Phoenix telemetry Exporter\n %s", ex, exc_info=True)
```
